8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Home
Browse
Browse All Works
Browse Client Narratives
Browse Reference
Browse Session Transcripts
Browse Subjects
Browse Symptoms
Browse Therapies
Search
Help
All Works  »  Full Text

  

GO

Search:

Full Text
Session 3: Client feels the pressure of doing well on her entrance exams for graduate school, in Client 405:
Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety, (2006), pp. 1-21
 show metadata

« Previous   

Session 3: Client feels the pressure of doing well on her entrance exams for graduate school

   Next »

TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: November 3. MP. Consultation. Betty Johnson.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so how are you?
PATIENT: Good. Tired. It was a long week.
COUNSELOR: So you went to a conference?
PATIENT: I had two conferences. One that went from Thursday to Saturday and the other one from Sunday to
Thursday.
COUNSELOR: Oh! I didn't realize it was two conferences.
PATIENT: Uh-huh. Yeah, the ﬁrst one was here in Whitehall. And the other one was...
COUNSELOR: In Tallahassee.
PATIENT: In Tallahassee. And now I cannot work. I cannot even think. A lot of these conferences are more about
connections and meeting people and showing your work than learning any science. More like...
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094423

1/15

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Networking.
PATIENT: So they all have networking. So they all have tons of receptions. Tons of dinners. Tons of lunches. Going
out with people. Everyone is going to bed 1:30 and then waking up at 6:00 am for-I don't know how many days.
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:01:26.7)
PATIENT: I'm done.
COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: I need to sleep. Oh yeah.
COUNSELOR: have you had a chance to get any rest? Or...
PATIENT: No, I got in yesterday at 11:30? Well, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah, I slept eight hours but I still need to recover from that.
COUNSELOR: To recover from that.
PATIENT: It was a really nice. I met a lot of nice people from different industries. And from different schools that I
want to apply. I introduced myself to everyone.
COUNSELOR: Oh well, good!
PATIENT: That's something I'm learning for me. In Portugal, you don't go in and introduce yourself. It's not that
common. But I don't know if it's because it's in the Midwest and it's real easy. I don't know. I'm used to talking in the
line with someone. I introduced myself to a lot of professors from different universities that I want to go to. And I
tell them, "You know, I am not like them."
COUNSELOR: "Keep my name and my face in your mind." (laughs)
PATIENT: Especially because I did really bad at the GRE at the level bad. Very very bad. But I got a really good
TOEFL. You know the TOEFL is for the English. So I'm afraid if they see that GRE, they're going to see that this
girl can't even say her name in English. So I had to make sure that everyone knew that I could understand the
language. I could express my - what I know and what I want to do. So that's why it was important for me to go up to
all the receptions and go out at night. But I'm so tired.
COUNSELOR: So what kind of pressure was that like? To feel like you had to introduce yourself to everybody...
PATIENT: No, I'm really social. [0:03:09.6]
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay, okay. So it was...
PATIENT: It was good. I liked it a lot. And I know-I knew I needed-I need to do it. I was really sad when I got my
GRE scores. It was like, this sucks because I've been-I studied for a whole year. I learned a lot of words. I got to
read the paper every day. I read the Time Magazine once a week. I put a lot of effort to learning English and talking
to people. And the GRE is the worst thing ever.
COUNSELOR: How did you cope with the GRE score when you got it back?
PATIENT: How what, you say?
COUNSELOR: How did you cope with ﬁnding out that you didn't do as well as you would've liked?

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094423

2/15

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: I cried a lot. And I felt really depressed. But when I talked to my boss here in Michigan, he's like, "Don't
worry. You'll get into Michigan. Don't worry about the scores." So that was good-I needed that. So at least I could
stay here.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Now - [0:04:08.5]
PATIENT: I felt so bad. I felt so, so bad.
COUNSELOR: I can imagine. Especially if you put so much effort into it, so much studying into it.
PATIENT: And then people that cannot even say 'hello', they get 600, 650. There's a girl in our med lab that got 750
on the verbal part of the GRE which is-this is over 800. Everyone else had to take it too. And I'm like, "This girl
can't really say her name in English." You cannot talk to her. She doesn't understand any English.
COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: But she got 6-not - 750, and I'm like... You know, you start feeling like you're the stupid one in the
hallway. I think-but then it's up to some of my friends. They are Portuguese and they are doing their PhDs here and
master's in other areas. They got the same bad GRE scores, in the English part.
COUNSELOR: You guys know who to compare yourself to and realize it wasn't...
PATIENT: I think it was... yeah. I think having people that are as-they did as bad as you on the GRE, the verbal part.
My ex-boyfriend, Jose? He got a 440 in the verbal. I got a 420 in the verbal. Jose got a 440 in the verbal part on the
GRE. And he graduated from Michigan and now he's doing really well. He's very...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's only one-I think it's only measurement of what they're looking for as far as success.
[0:05:35.0]
PATIENT: But some of the Asian professors? They-they're all about the scores. If you have a lot of Asian professors
in the committee. But oh well. I don't know. I've met a lot of Latin American people that got really, really bad scores
and they're-they're good scientists and I don't know. At the beginning I was really sad, but then it's like, okay. People
that are international people that did pretty well on the GRE, they can't even speak in English or write a message. I
got a really good essay score on the GRE. And so, I was just like, that assignment is not good. But it was really
hard.
COUNSELOR: I mean, I can imagine. It sounds like you've got a lot of study.
PATIENT: I study, every day with it. It's really hard to work all day and then have the energy to go and study. So I
study with this friend. He has six months left of math, math major, like bachelor's. And he works at the college and
pharmacy as IT. So he works and studies. And I study with him. Because it was so hard to work all day and then go
and study. And he's like, "Marta, you're going to get at least a 500 in the English part. You're doing so much better
now." And then I got this bad score. And he said, "I cannot believe this."
COUNSELOR: What do you contribute your bad score to? [0:07:04.0]
PATIENT: Why was my bad score?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: There were a lot of words that... I got tons of words at the beginning that I didn't know. And it's really
funny because the words that are difﬁcult for people here are really easy for me. Like the words that are Latin-have
Latin roots, you know? Words that you don't use on an every day type basis. And this is Kurt. It's supposed to be
intermediate questions at the beginning. And if you do bad, they will put easy questions, words.
For me the easy words? Words that people use every day. For me, they're not easy. I never learned them before. So it
was really funny. It was completely different. For what - what is difﬁcult for me, is easy for someone else. And
what's easy for me is difﬁcult. Because I helped my friend a lot with all these Latin verbs. Words, and, oh well.
COUNSELOR: Now did you take the GRE once or twice?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094423

3/15

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: I took it once, last year, in November. And I did as bad as I did this time. No, not as bad. I did worse than
this time. And so I decided to study for a whole year and apply for next year, for 2007. And I did it. I did better, I
improved, but it was still... I improved 100 points over the whole score. 50 and 50.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so you actually submit your applications this January? Or...
PATIENT: I'm submitting it right now.
COUNSELOR: Right now? Okay. So what has that process been like for you?
PATIENT: Stressful. Because it's a lot of work. And I have the applications. I have a lot-two of my recommender
people that wrote the recommendation letter are Portuguese. So it's really hard to put in contact with them.
Sometimes they write the letter in English and it's hard for them. So you have to ﬁnd someone that will...
[0:09:09.3]
COUNSELOR: Translate it or...
PATIENT: And then my mom has to pick them up because the application is not online. They cannot send the
application online so they have to send it in paper. So my mom has to go there and pick up the application. Send it
to me through FedEx.
COUNSELOR: Well, it sounds like that can be...
PATIENT: And then my boss here, he was just not happy that I'm applying to all these schools.
COUNSELOR: He's not happy that you're applying to all these schools?
PATIENT: He's the one who brought me here from Portuguese. So he tells me all the time that I should stay in
Whitehall. And that's the - that is the right decision. He's a jerk. I learn how to work for him. But he's a jerk.
COUNSELOR: What makes him a jerk?
PATIENT: He thinks the only person who does things the right way, is him. And that everyone else in the world is
wrong. Yeah, that's weird. And, what else makes him a jerk. People don't like him. he's so aggressive. Some one
asks him questions on his research. He's like, it's completely defensive and aggressive. And says bad things about
everyone.
He's from Portugal. Well this is third person. This story doesn't affect me. He's from Portugal, but he denies it. He is
like, "I'd never say I'm Portuguese or from Portugal or they will believe that is because of the afﬁrmative action that
I am where I am." And then he's like... so his name is Stephan? And now he's like Steve. So that doesn't even use the
other name. He tells me all the time that COUNSELOR: Does that bother you? [0:10:56.2]
PATIENT: I just think it's so stupid. And he tells me all the time that I shouldn't hang out with Portuguese people.
That I shouldn't hang out with other scientists, that I should stay and work here. There are things that you shouldn't
recommend to anyone. Everyone should decide what to do and I shouldn't go to Portuguese stuff. (ph)
COUNSELOR: Does he remind you of anyone else in your, in your life or...?
PATIENT: No, I think he's... I don't know. But it was really hard in the beginning to work for him. We had so many
ﬁghts. He used to tell me I was a handicapped person.
COUNSELOR: That you're handicapped?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean?
PATIENT: I was doing some announcements for him and I had some mistakes. And he gets really upset-upset about
everything. And you know-how do you say that? Moody? If you do things right, he's going to be so nice with you.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094423

4/15

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

He tells me all day, now, "Wonderful job. You're such a hard worker. You're so smart." But then if you do something
wrong, he'll just ﬂip. [0:11:59.9]
And then he starts telling me, so he told me. Last time he was really nasty with me, the handicapped thing? It was in
March. So I was pretty insulted for me. I was working 80 hours a week. I was leaving the school at 10 pm, coming
back at 8 am. It was so hard. I did these mistakes when I gave him the report and he was like, "I think you're
handicapped. I think you can't do things right. You have problems with addition and then you make mistakes all the
time. Are you trying to fool me." It's a mistake, it's not-but so it was really hard.
Last year, he was really-I mean, he was not a nice person. He was really really annoying. He used to tell us that we
were schizophrenic. In a lab meeting, "You guys are schizophrenic. All you guys invent your own world and you
give me crazy results. You guys don't work enough." So last year was a really tough year. And then I tried to apply
to other schools, to leave Michigan. I didn't want to be in Michigan. I hated it. And then - I was like, "Okay, I'm
going to apply other schools. If I don't get anywhere, I'll just go back to Portugal." I hated it with all my heart. The
project I had was so bad. It was not interesting. So I told him I want to apply to schools. And he's like, "You'll never
get into any schools. You're not good enough."
COUNSELOR: What did that feel like? [0:13:27.7]
PATIENT: It's like, "If I'm not good enough, why am I here?" Why don't you get yourself someone that's good
enough." And it was really funny. There were these second year students in my lab. Or ﬁrst years, I don't know.
They didn't know anything. They didn't know the basic biological theories or anything, anything. And they came to
me all the time to ask questions. Really stupid questions like, I don't know. Things that if you have the pharmacy
and biology background. You should know. And I help them a lot. And then he tells me that I'm not good enough to
be where I am? I'm better than your two or three year students. PhD students.
COUNSELOR: That must have been frustrating for you.
PATIENT: It was awful. It was so bad. I was like-I was decided to go back to Portugal. That's it-that's it for me. So
then he switched my project with, to a different project. I was telling him this is not working. I don't want to do this.
This is not working. So of course I was not happy with my project. It wasn't working. You know how-it takes two
people to ﬁght. So I was not happy. I was-the project sucked. It was so bad. He was nasty and a jerk. It was ﬁghts
every week. So he switched my projects to a really interesting one-One I liked. A lot of chemistry, some biology. So
I started doing it. But then I started getting bad mistakes. And he was yelling at me. Okay. [0:14:59.6]
So one day he comes to the lab and is talking to me and Christina, which is a third year PhD student. And Jerry
which is a ﬁrst-he kicked out of the program to one of the students. One of the two year students I just told you? He
kicked one of them out.
COUNSELOR: Recently? (inaudible at 0:15:14.9)
PATIENT: This was in December before I went back to Portugal. So December, 2005. Last-before Christmas. He
was doing-she was doing so bad that she got kicked out. No, I'm sorry, it was not December. It was in October. So
then I asked him, "I want to apply to schools. I don't want to stay here for another half-one and a half years. I want
to apply to schools." He's like, "You're not good enough. I'm not going to risk my image of letting you apply (ph),
giving you your permission letter and then you will be like Lin Tomko." What's her name. I don't remember what
her name was. He said, "I don't want to-I don't want you to - let you ruin my image. Lin Tomko already ruined it.
And you're not good enough. You need a GRE over-you need to get almost perfect scores." He gave me over 2100.
I'm like...? So he's like, "You're not good enough. You're not going to get into any school. And I'm not going to give
you a recommendation letter." So it's like...
COUNSELOR: Didn't that surprise you?
PATIENT: It surprised me, a lot. And so I was like, "Okay, don't give me a recommendation letter." So I started
looking for master's. And... but things got better and then he came to the lab. And was like, " Girls, I want to know
why other students don't want to join my lab." And we didn't laugh. We were like-"Because you're a jerk. Because
you scare people."
COUNSELOR: You told him that?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094423

5/15

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Yeah. [0:16:43.8]
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay.
PATIENT: I mean, we didn't say jerk but, "Because you scare people. You yell at the ﬁrst year students. You're very
aggressive so people are scared of you." And I told him, "And I don't want to have a mean boss. As a mentor, you're
going to have to stay with the person ﬁve years. The person owns you." He's like, "Well you guys should help me."
[And we were like] (ph), "I'm not going to lie to anyone. You have to change." So he pretended that we would tell
how nasty he is. So we tell him, "You have to change. There is no way - we're not going to lie for you." Because the
students ask you, "How is he?" and you're like, " Well..."
COUNSELOR: "He's smart." (laughs)
PATIENT: He's smart but he is not a nice person. And then he yells at everyone in the hallway.
COUNSELOR: Did he ever yell at you in the hallway?
PATIENT: Yeah, when he calls you into his ofﬁce and closes the doors. It's because he's going to say,
"Congratulations." (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Oh, when he closes the door..
PATIENT: I'm just kidding. He always has the door open. And every time he is mad at you, he will yell at you from
his ofﬁce to the hallway. Or like being really mean. And this is to everyone. But if he has something nice to say, we
joke about it. It's like he closes the door. The other professors don't like him. They tell me all the time. "Marta, if
you really want to come to Michigan for grad school, you know you don't have to work for him." [0:18:16.7]
Well, when he went to the lab and told us, you know like, that he was going to change [at me] (ph). So he's like,
"Okay. Today is my day zero." I'm going to give him a second chance and try to erase. I'm not basing my decision
on my last year. Just starting-it was what, May? Starting May 1st, let's say. I'm going to just start from zero. Give
him another chance. I've been better at my work. I like my project so perhaps my... I think my relationship with him
changed a lot because I'm happy with my project. I get good results. And get papers.
So I said, "Okay, day zero. It starts." And then he starts telling me all the time. Every time he sees me. "You should
make the bad decision. You should come to Michigan for grad school. You should work for me." And I'm like, the
bad decision? That's kind of biased. That is not...
And then we were at a meeting. He was a jerk with everyone. So everyone is like, "Oh so your Marta here got the
(inaudible at 0:19:26.9) and I'm like, "Yes." And everyone is like, "Oh poor you." And I'm like (laughs), "Oh-oh.
This is not good." And then people in the mainstream (ph), they-no one likes them.
COUNSELOR: Were they talking about him during this conference time?
PATIENT: Everyone talks about how crazy he is. And he doesn't have tenure yet. So, I know he's really smart. His
problem is he is emotionally stupid. IQ? He's really really smart. Emotional intelligence, he's like the stupidest guy
ever. He's so bad. I really, I mean if I had a chance to go somewhere else, I'll go somewhere else. I don't want to
ﬁght with him.
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: Do you have to work with him? If you get into Michigan, do you have toPATIENT: Well that's what the other professors say. But, that I don't have to work for him. But..
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:20:18.8)
PATIENT: The department is so small that he will be in the seminars. In the.. he could be my committee.
COUNSELOR: Right, so it sounds like you'll have a difﬁcult time...
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094423

6/15

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: It's notCOUNSELOR: Facing him, if you stay?
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah. I don't think I would be able to. I would give him a chance to start with him. And he gets
crazy. I'll switch to a different lab. It's too complicated. I don't think. Because he thinks I owed him for bringing me
here.
COUNSELOR: What is that like to be in that type of position, that type of spot? To feel as though you haven't...
PATIENT: It was bad. Now I don't care. Now it's like, "If you want to kick me out of the lab, go ahead. I'll just go
back to my house." But in the beginning it was really hard. And he was trying everyone else that I was good
enough. Oh because he had a lot of post-docs before. And he had bad, bad ﬁghts with him. And they all left after 8
months, 6 months, one year. So he says that post-docs are not good. Everybody else has post-docs. Come on. He's
the only one with no post-docs in that lab. And he says that post-docs are stupid and they don't work enough. And
he says this in front of everyone. So it's hard. And what makes me really really afraid is that people don't like him.
And it will be reﬂected...
COUNSELOR: On you? [0:21:41.7]
PATIENT: On me. I don't know. People don't like him and people don't trust him. So when you graduate from his
lab, it's got to be almost impossible to ﬁnd a job.
COUNSELOR: You think? Has another-have other people...?
PATIENT: Yeah. No, Christina has graduated and she-they already told-some companies they already told her that
what she does is... Is not good for pharmaceutical companies.
COUNSELOR: Hm! And - and you think it might be because...
PATIENT: I don't know. I'm not - I just don't even want to think about it. I'm kind of waiting for other schools to
give me offers and... If I have to stay here, I'll ﬁgure it out later.
COUNSELOR: But it's too difﬁcult to even think about it now or to...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Because... if... I know he's really good and I would learn a lot of things. But I'm really afraid that the
research he wants to do with me, it's completely different from the ﬁeld I'm in. Well I guess I could post-doc after I
graduate.
COUNSELOR: Are there other professors who are doing...
PATIENT: A lot of stuff.
COUNSELOR: Who are too ...
PATIENT: Cool stuff... Here in Michigan? No. Their (inaudible at 0:22:54.2) are really good. I mean, Michigan is a
really amazing school. My problem in Michigan is my boss. And the weather. And I have a really good rela-he pays
for everything. He tells me like, "Marta, go into this meeting. Go here, go there." He talks to people and says I'm the
best person in his lab. He's very very nice with me. But once I do something bad? He turns completely.
COUNSELOR: Is that similar to anybody in your past as far as moody, that moodiness? Where you felt obligated,
like you had to do something although you really didn't want to? But because they had done certain things for you,
you felt like you had to go and go through with it.
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: No, okay.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094423

7/15

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: I don't know. Yeah, I don't think so.
COUNSELOR: Because how have you handled this in the past when you've been faced with a situation that you - ?
And this one, I guess what I'm hearing you say is you would rather go to another school. [0:23:55.7]
PATIENT: Yeah, if I get accepted in another school, I - - I'm not, I mean. Yeah. But I want to do research so much
that I would give him another chance.
COUNSELOR: Right, but if you're saying that you would rather not work with him. That you have other
opportunities to work with other professors...
PATIENT: If they accept me in the other schools, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Right, but here in Michigan, I guess I'm saying.
PATIENT: Oh, but yeah. But I don't think that's the good..
COUNSELOR: Right, because you wouldn't be able to face him in other seminars or if he is on your committee. Or
whatever the case is.
PATIENT: He's really nasty. Do you know what he did. We were in Florida. So we would go to Florida and I'm
standing with Mandy. She's-she defended two weeks ago. So we like-she's the happiest person. She got a really
good job at Pﬁzer. She's going to the East Coast. She's the happiest person ever. Her advisor retired in January. It
was so hard for her. So she had to switch advisors, ﬁnish her project with a different person. So the project you can
tell that has like-some things that... [0:24:59.5]
COUNSELOR: Disconnection (ph) or..
PATIENT: But what can you do? It's not your fault that your advisor retired six months before your plan to graduate.
You know, the other advisor helped her. So we're-she's the happiest person ever. We're standing in Tallahassee at the
reception, drinking wine, eating, talking to people. She's really social, like me. We love to go out, we love to go out
for dinner. We're meeting people and then my boss comes. And starts telling her that they were really nice with her.
That she was-with that project, she would fail. Which is not true. I mean you can see there is some stuff that doesn't
ﬁt in the whole story. But the results and the experimental part are really good. And her-in her committee was the
chair of the department and other professors. So he's-you know, they told her, "Okay, Mandy, you graduate."
But then he comes, two weeks after this. He approaches us in a party. It was not about work. It was a party to meet
people. And he comes to us and we're with this huge group of people from other companies, from different
pharmaceutical companies. And he's like, "Well Mandy, you project was so bad, you could failed. So we were really
nice with you. Because a lot of the things you did. You just let it halfway through it. You didn't ﬁnish."
COUNSELOR: And he said this amongst a mixed group of people. [0:26:32.1]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: And I, I was a bit hurt.
COUNSELOR: What were you thinking?
PATIENT: And she was...
COUNSELOR: What were you thinking as you heard (ph)... ?
PATIENT: I don't know, I just... it was like, I'm not going to talk to him. I'm just going to leave this place. How can
you come and-her advisor retired. She was like..
COUNSELOR: No empathy, no...
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094423

8/15

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Yeah, her project of course had things that were-didn't ﬁt because she had to change advisors. And she
wanted to stick with a lot of stuff that her ﬁrst advisor, the Dr. Cantor that left, helped... When someone moves on, I
think as a tribute to this person you kind of... So in her pieces, you could see parts that were like, here are Dr.
Cantor's... What are you saying, too?
COUNSELOR: You were saying when someone moves on, you would think you would want to pay tribute to them?
PATIENT: Yeah, she is like, "I'm not-" She told me, it's like, "I put some things in my dissertation because this is
what Dr. Cantor had taught. What he was interested in."
COUNSELOR: Right. And so you want to carry that out. Yeah, that would make sense.
PATIENT: And then my boss is telling this. And she is like, "You know, that was Dr. Cantor's idea." And he's like,
"Well you should have just took it. Put it apart and not put it in your manuscript." And she was like, "He retired." So
this was in front of everyone. And she was so upset. And I was like.. I wanted to say something but sometimes it's
not your problem. It's not your ﬁght.
COUNSELOR: Right. [0:28:13.9]
PATIENT: It would have made things worse if I...
COUNSELOR: What were you thinking about saying if (inaudible at 0:28:19.0)...
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: I tell him, "Come on, her advisor left. It was a good - it was a good - it was a good project. Why are you
telling her this here? Why didn't you tell her this at-that's why you meet with the people on your data sessions. And
that's why you meet your professors at the defense. Why do you have to say this in front of everyone?"
COUNSELOR: He wanted to embarrass her, maybe?
PATIENT: Yeah! I'm like, this guy is crazy. I don't want to work for him.
COUNSELOR: Now I'm wondering, Marta, as I'm listening to you. We had brieﬂy talked about this in the last
session or the session before last. We were talking about your interest in cancer and where that might have come
from. I know you said that's a complex disease and there's research done. And we talked about signiﬁcant people
who had passed away and died of cancer.
And it's interesting to hear you say now and looking at your friend's situation. And how people die and move on,
you want to continue to carry out things that remind you of them or whatever the case is. And so I just want to, kind
of... look at that. And even in your own work, we talked about maybe doing some of that. I just wonder what comes
up when you think about Mandy paying tribute to Dr. Cantor in her work. And when you look at your work and
signiﬁcant people who've moved on. [0:29:51.6]
PATIENT: No no, I mean. Yeah, I think... how do I say this. No, I-No, I don't know exactly what to tell you. I don't
know some of the questions. The question is how do I feel or - ?
COUNSELOR: The question is, do you see any connection? Any relationship? You say that in Mandy's situation, it
is..
PATIENT: Yeah, I would-I would deﬁnitely like... if you spend four years with such a nice-her advisor was so nice.
He was such a nice person. He was... so of course I understand that she didn't want to.. just erase him from...
COUNSELOR: Sure, (inaudible at 0:30:36.1)
PATIENT: No, I understand that. I mean it's the same thing-I think it happens to everyone. Someone special in your
life and they pass away. So you don't want to... You don't want to erase them. So that's whyCOUNSELOR: What about you?
PATIENT: Huh?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094423

9/15

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Hasn't there been someone special in your life, has passed that you didn't want to erase and you
continue to do something in honor of them, maybe? Or... [0:30:57.9]
PATIENT: I don't know if it's like explicit that I continue doing something in honor of them. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah...
COUNSELOR: Okay. Look, it makes wonder, because we talked before, you've talked about your psychotherapist
who became very ill. So that's what comes to my mind. I'm often curious as I've been thinking about our discussions
and things. I wonder if... You talk and [at one point] (ph), you described her and it seemed like you really liked her,
and had some thoughts about her with her passing away so suddenly. I wonder how much of your loss have you
grieved. And how much of her memory do you continue to carry on with you.
PATIENT: I think... yeah, I think asking you for help or like coming her. (cries)
COUNSELOR: That's okay. [0:32:08.1]
PATIENT: I think that's what she taught me. Okay. That you don't need to be crazy. That normal people, that people
that are... Because she used to tell me. Okay of course I was a teenager. I was going to therapy twice a week. A lot
of people in my high school were. But then everybody is laughing, "Oh you're crazy." So then I'm like, "Yeah I'm
crazy." So we used to laugh with her a lot about how crazy people are, the ones who never ask for help. Or never
realize that they're not-that they're having problems and that it's so difﬁcult.
So some, a lot of problems are so difﬁcult to handle. And sometimes they're not even your prob-sometimes it's your
family problem or your boss is crazy and everybody hates him. And then everybody tells you, "You're such a nice
person. You shouldn't work for him." So I think coming here and asking for help and going to therapy. Or telling my
friends that they should go to.
My mom got really depressed, so I was like, "Mom, you have to go to a psychiatrist or psychologist, whatever. You
have to ask for help. You cannot deal with my brother's situation. You getting old." I mean, I didn't say, "You getting
old." Dad's retirement. Losing her mom, my grandmother died. My grandfather died. Everything she was alone in
one year. My brother left, I left, my grandfather died and my grandmother died. So I was like, "You have to go and
ask for help. You cannot do this by yourself." And she was so bad that they start-the psychiatrist suggested to her to
take Zoloft. Which I'm not a fan of anti-depressants at all. I hate them. But I think that in her situation, doing that for
a couple of months or I don't know how long the treatment, it's okay. But I think that's my tribute too. [0:34:18.6]
COUNSELOR: What was her name again?
PATIENT: Bella.
COUNSELOR: Bella. Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And I would hope that over the course of this work, Marta, that we can talk a little bit more
about Bella. Because in the previous sessions, it seems like talking about her is painful for you, or reﬂecting on that.
And I say that because when I bring her up sometimesPATIENT: Right, right.
COUNSELOR: You change the subject or you cry and then change the subject to something else. And that was a
signiﬁcant loss for you.
PATIENT: yeah.
COUNSELOR: You know, and it's okay to-I'm wondering if you ever really had a chance to grieve her loss. And I
think that would be important for you to do. She seems like a really neat person. You saw her for a long amount of
time. And then the way it ended, I'm sure that there's all types of mixed feelings about that. And if you don't grieve
that properly or work through that, in a sense, I mean... it could continue to hurt or whatever the case is.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094423

10/15

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: When she died, I was... I don't know how old I was. But my parents were out of town. She was really
good friends. She and her husband were really good friends, were friends with my parents and had friends in
common. And she was-her husband used to work in the same place my father did. They're all from the same city. So
my parents are a part of this big... wave of people that went from one city to the other. Like I told you, we moved.
They're economist and they're from the city. And now they-a lot of them moved to Lisbon to work in the
government or different universities. [0:36:11.4]
So that's... So there was a big group of people like my parents, including her and her husband. So when she did, my
parents were out of town, working. I don't know where they were. And I didn't know anyone that was going to her
funeral. So I didn't go.
COUNSELOR: You didn't go to the funeral? Oh, okay.
PATIENT: I didn't want to go by myself. But it's like you say. I never had the time... Because you go to a funeral and
it's more like to say, "Sorry". No, not sorry. You don't say, "Sorry" at funerals. How do you say that? To?
COUNSELOR: Goodbyes?
PATIENT: Yeah. To tell the person you feel their pain?
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: But I didn't know anyone. I never went-I didn't go to the funeral. But I think, after that I learned that you
have to go the funerals. You have to go through the process of...
COUNSELOR: How do you think going to the funeral would've helped you? Or (inaudible at 0:37:21.5).
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: I don't know. I think I was really young and I didn't know anyone.
COUNSELOR: Sure. But going through - looking back at it now, you're saying that you can see..
PATIENT: No, I think it would-it would have helped if my parents were there. But I think, I don't know how it
would be, if I were by myself.
COUNSELOR: Right. How do you think it would have helped you if you had been able to go? If you...
PATIENT: In what to do? In what?
COUNSELOR: UhmPATIENT: Would my...?
COUNSELOR: So when you think about it now, and say it probably would've been a good thing to go. That it
would've helped you with the process. What would've been some of the beneﬁts of being able to go to the funeral
and say your feelings or...
PATIENT: That I wouldn't be crying every time you ask about her.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess it's that.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So I mean, I want you to think about that. So let's say if you were to go-if you had a chance
to go to the funeral. Or if you could have had one more session with her, knowing that she was going to pass away.
What kinds of things would you have said to her. And just kind of, over this period, kind of think about that, and we
can talk through that together, in our next session, if you like.
PATIENT: Okay.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094423

11/15

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: I think what's important, Marta, especially because she was so signiﬁcant to you, and having left
that situation unresolved?
PATIENT: Mm-hm.
COUNSELOR: I think what can happen is that it can play itself out in our relationship.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Do you see how that could happen or...?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Did she ever talk to you about transference issues or...?
PATIENT: About what?
COUNSELOR: Transference...
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Issues... Okay.
PATIENT: Like...no.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: No, I used to date a guy and she used to say that I was dating him because he was like my father.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And it's like, stop dating. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so it's like transference. Here you have this father who is similar so you bring that into
relationship (inaudible at 0:39:25.00).
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Oh yes, she was all about Freud. So she was all about...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: "You are dating him because he's like your father." And so..
COUNSELOR: Right. And so what I'm saying is, if there were certain connections or certain feelings of things that
you had toward Bella in that psychotherapeutic relationship, and there are mixed feelings and things that you have.
And sometimes those things can be carried out in our relationship because I can represent psychotherapists,
although I'm Betty in 2006. She was Bella in, over the seas. In a certain period of time, those things can carry over.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Right? And so just something to think about. It doesn't mean that it has to happen that way, but it
can. And so the times where I may think that applies, I may bring it up. Because it's about relating your past
relationships to your present relationships. And even how you relate in here with me. And so we may talk about that
at some point.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Okay? But how do you feel? What are you thinking?
PATIENT: Right now?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094423

12/15

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I'm okay.
COUNSELOR: You're sure? Okay. Because it's tough? [This stuff's] (ph) hard for you? Sure. What's tough about it?
[0:40:50.1]
PATIENT: (cries)
COUNSELOR: You miss her or you...?
PATIENT: No. I'm just... I think I'm overwhelmed with all the meetings and ...
COUNSELOR: So the exhaustion?
PATIENT: And now coming back here. And the winter.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And yeah, I miss her, of course, but...
COUNSELOR: Okay. So what are you going to do to take care of yourself this-for the rest of the week, and this
weekend?
PATIENT: This weekend, I have one thousand plans. I'm like, I don't want to do it. I need to sleep. But I have a lot
of plans. I met a really nice guy in the meeting.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay.
PATIENT: But he's from Portland so, ah, forget about it.
(laughter)
PATIENT: Why don't I, why don't itCOUNSELOR: Can you just talk on the phone, or...?
PATIENT: One of my topics on the list was like, less than two miles away from my house.
COUNSELOR: (laughs)
PATIENT: No we had a really good time. And it was really good because he's applying, he's going to apply to
schools next year? And he's a-he works at Pﬁzer. He graduated from Michigan, has a (inaudible at 0:42:10.3). And
he got a job at Pﬁzer. And then moved to Maine. Pﬁzer, Maine. And he lives in Portland, eh, oh well.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: But, no, it was good. I got a lot-a lot of people and asked me for dates. They never asked about the sign.
(ph)
(laughter)
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay.
PATIENT: No, I'm just-I'm just joking. I mean, a lot of people came to ask me about the signs. But I was like
explaining them and suddenly they're like, "What are you going to do tonight?" And I'm like, "What?"
(laughter)
PATIENT: Yeah, but oh well. Well this guy, yeah. So this guy is applying to a lot of similar schools and I'm
applying. And he's like, "I don't want to go to Michigan." Which is good. Because everybody is like, "Michigan is
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094423

13/15

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

so good, you have to go to Michigan."
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And then he's like, "Yeah, Michigan is so good. There are a lot of good schools. But I already spent six
years in Michigan."
COUNSELOR: Okay, okay.
PATIENT: And he's like - And I understand. And he's like, "You should move. You should not work for your boss."
And so he was good because I was applying-I'm applying to the same schools-some of the same schools that he's
going to apply. So I was relieved. It's not - I'm not crazy for leaving Michigan. If I get accepted somewhere else, I'll
just...
COUNSELOR: You'll be okay with that.
PATIENT: Yeah, he was really nice. We had a lot of fun. We talked so much.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay. Well that's good. [0:43:30.2]
PATIENT: Yeah. So - and it was good because he's like, "I can't play (ph) that good."
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I'm sure that was a huge relief to you. And it seems like that person (ph) PATIENT: And it was so funny because I tell in two weeks, and my friend from my lab is like, before I met the guy
- half an hour before I met him. Christina, this girl said, "Oh Marta, by the way, your two weeks are over. Now you
can start dating."
COUNSELOR: (laughs)
PATIENT: And I'm like, "Christina, what am I going to meet in these things? This is bunch of geeks and PhD
students. PhDs. It's like, there's no one here for me." And then half an hour, you have... it was so funny.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay.
PATIENT: We were laughing. And he is really nice to hang out with. He is really smart. I really enjoyed hanging out
with a smart guy.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Well good for you.
PATIENT: So yeah, but oh well. He lives in Portland. I'll ﬁnd someone else. No, I mean... it was a good thing too.
You know, like to...
COUNSELOR: To get your feet back out there. (laughs)
PATIENT: Yeah. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Well good for you, good for you. Okay, we have to end now.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Do you want to come back next week?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. See we had talked about... let me see. We talked about possibly doing Wednesday, the 12:15,
but I'll be in Berkley on that Wednesday. So I'm wondering. That's Veteran's Day. I won't be here Veteran's Day. Are
you able to come on Thursdays or?
PATIENT: Yeah. What time?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094423

14/15

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Yeah, let's do... (inaudible at 0:45:28.2)
PATIENT: I can come whenever. I'm right next door, so.
COUNSELOR: Okay, let's do 12:00 on Thursday.
PATIENT: what day is that?
COUNSELOR: The ninth.
PATIENT: Okay, Because we have lunches on the sixth and the eighth.
COUNSELOR: Is that okay?
PATIENT: Mm-hm. Okay.
COUNSELOR: And have you ﬁnished the computer things yet?
PATIENT: Oh I have to ﬁnish it.
COUNSELOR: Are you going to ﬁnish those today or you going to come back?
PATIENT: I don't know. I'm really hungry.
COUNSELOR: (laughs) All right. I need to go those done!
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Okay, I'll ﬁnish them.
COUNSELOR: So I can put your treatments in together.
PATIENT: Ah, yeah, I'll ﬁnish them right now.
COUNSELOR: Okay, I mean, if you - you know.
END TRANSCRIPT

back to top
Copyright © 2008 by Alexander Street Press, LLC • About | Help | Terms of Use

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094423

15/15

