8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Home
Browse
Browse All Works
Browse Client Narratives
Browse Reference
Browse Session Transcripts
Browse Subjects
Browse Symptoms
Browse Therapies
Search
Help
All Works  »  Full Text

  

Search:

GO

Full Text
Five Approaches to Linda: Session Three, Cognitive Behavior Therapy, in Five Approaches to Linda, (1996), pp. 1-21
 show metadata

« Previous   

Five Approaches to Linda: Session Three, Cognitive Behavior Therapy

   Next »

Five Approaches to Linda: Session Three, Cognitive Behavior Therapy
FIVE APPROACHES TO LINDA
SESSION 3
INTRODUCTION
The unique aspect to this program involving inclusion of an actress who portrayed the role of the patient with the same problem each day at the ﬁve
day presentation. Students and participants obtained the ﬁrst hand view of how each individual theorist dealt from their own prospective with the
patient and her particular problems. The case of Linda was developed to be a ﬁxed role for this particular presentation. Any deviation that occurs
during the course of her sessions with these various therapists, occurred as a result of what the particular therapist chose to focus on as they
facilitated the sessions, as opposed to any deliberate deviation by the actress herself.
The following session features Therapist #3, who is using Cognitive Behavior Therapy.
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi, Linda.
CLIENT: Hi.
THERAPIST: You know, they're going through this information that we gathered and, uhm, just let us stop here. What's going on in your life,
Linda?
CLIENT: Hmmm.
THERAPIST: You know, I'm wondering if there is any one particular aspect of this that really encouraged you to come in for treatment.
CLIENT: Well, ah, I guess I have to say, uhm, since my father has been sick, uhm, it's made me look a little closer at my life and uhm, what's going
on, what happened in my life and what's going on now? It might be happening in the future. So I guess really, ah, when I, when my father became
ill.
THERAPIST: Uh-uhm. What do you see?
CLIENT: Excuse me?
THERAPIST: What do you see?
CLIENT: Well, I see ...
THERAPIST: You said, you've been looking at your life a little closer.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000699481

1/13

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

CLIENT: Oh, what do I see? My life? (sighs) Well, I see that there really is nothing about that, ah, uhm, makes me feel uhm, that I've gotten
anywhere, that I've gained anything, that I am anybody. I have a husband and I have two sons. That's about it, about it, ah...
THERAPIST: Uh-uhm. (deep breath) Sometimes I feel like I live in some things out. You say, you see that there really isn't much of anything, that
you have family members but—What kind of thoughts have been going on in your mind lately?
CLIENT: Uhm, well, that I, that I really don't have what I thought I would have with my children, ah, my husband. My work is no longer satisfying
for me.
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: Uhm, my husband and I don't know really have a relationship at all. We rarely talk about anything signiﬁcant. Ahh...
THERAPIST: You said that you don't have what you thought you would you have with the family. What were your expectations?
CLIENT: Well, you know, I guess, my mother died when I was young.
THERAPIST: How old were you?
CLIENT: Teenager, uhm, teenager, and ahh, I never really had the storybook home life, you know, I never had that. But I, but I knew there was life
because I used to, to watch T.V. and I'd imagine that's what it should be like. And I thought, when I never had it, I'm going to make sure that
someday that kind of family life would be, you know, my family.
THERAPIST: (deep breaths) So you develop this conceptualization of what you thought the family would be?
CLIENT: Uh-uhm.
THERAPIST: But it never happen?
CLIENT: Because maybe it started out pretty good but ahh, it's a sort of, I don't know, didn't follow through, it didn't, just might not.
THERAPIST: Did it happen overnight or did that window (ph) overtime?
CLIENT: Overtime, I would say, uhm...
THERAPIST: So as it began at the wind (inaudible 0004:08:06) overtime? What we're your thoughts and what were your perceptions about it?
CLIENT: (deep breath) Well, when I ﬁnished school and I ah, met my husband and we got married, uhm, everything was fairly okay then. I had my
job, my work and I... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: And now when you say "fairly okay" you mean it was falling in line with what your expectations were?
CLIENT: Well, actually, I didn't know what is it supposed to be, like in the very beginning, and I assumed that was gonna happen, you know, it's
going to just...
THERAPIST: So again, you used the frame of reference as what you experienced when you're growing up, or what you read about?
CLIENT: Well, what I kinda saw on television, (inaudible 00:04:57.1)
THERAPIST: Like the Brady Bunch or what—would you—what were you watching on T.V.? What shows were you watching?
CLIENT: Uhmm, like "Father Knows Best" ah, “Ozzie and Harriet" (laughs)
THERAPIST: “Ozzie and Harriet”? (laughs) Your date is in the real life.
CLIENT: (laughs) I know. I don't wanna talk about it... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: ... I know, there were a lot of, uhm, shows, uhm you know, in a situation comedy, they would—they were really—or there was a mom
that was real nice, a dad that was real nice and ah, kids were all happy and...
THERAPIST: So that something what shaped your schema or—w-what we call “schema” belief about what family life should be?
CLIENT: Mmm.
THERAPIST: What else did you put into that path? Experiences at home, and all experiences that you saw, that you witnessed with friends,
neighbors, family members. (indistinct sound)
CLIENT: Well, my mother was ah, not around when I was at certain age. She was always a wonderful mother on her tiny (ph). She, uh, (deep
breath) she would do everything with us and ah, (deep breath) she was very loving and very sweet and very caring and uhm... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Like Harriet?
CLIENT: Pardon?
THERAPIST: Like Harriet. (laughs) But she was (inaudible 00:00:17.1)
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000699481

2/13

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

CLIENT: Well, she wasn't quite likely like that, that she, she was a wonderful person. And she cared about her children very much.
THERAPIST: You?
CLIENT: Pardon.
THERAPIST: You?
CLIENT: (murmurs) She cared about me and my brother. But then she died, when she was uhm, when I was a teenager and, and I lost that, I lost
that connection with somebody who was sort of, like me. I mean, I had two brothers, my father, uhm...
THERAPIST: Was that an abrupt time when she died?
CLIENT: Uh-uhm. She had brain aneurysm. In fact, she died when she was 45, which is the age I am now.
THERAPIST: What did that do to you then, do you remember? How did that affect you?
CLIENT: When I lost her?
THERAPIST: What are the thoughts and feelings you had?
CLIENT: Ahh, (murmurs) Devastation. Devastation.
THERAPIST: You know, I sensed a minute ago that when you talk about your mother's death it—I almost got an impression that you're feeling the
same thing as you did then.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: When you say “devastation,” did it occur to you the world will come to an end?
CLIENT: Well, of course, of course. And I think really, I didn't realize then what I know now. I guess we never do more like young, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But I've done so much, thinking about her, as I've grown with my own life.
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: I'm thinking about her life and what she had, she was not a real happy person. I don't think, in that respect, I'm thinking about her life and
I don't think she was happy when she died, with her lot, and ah, she had three, three children and uhm, a man who didn't appreciate her, didn't treat
her right, didn't let her grow and let her become all that she could be as a woman. And uhm, I just feel that at my age now which was her age when
she died, I want to make sure that, that doesn't happen to me.
THERAPIST: I'd like to go back for a minute. You said that you develop the scheme of this belief of, of conceptualization of what family life was
like and what your world was like and it was pretty happy. And then, fate dealt you a terrible blow, it took your mother from you. It kinda robbed
you, didn't it?
CLIENT: Yeah, it did.
THERAPIST: I almost sensed that when you talked a few minutes ago about your life, you feel robbed.
CLIENT: Yeah, uhm, I would say that. I feel robbed, cheated, like that I don't have something I was supposed to have...
THERAPIST: “Supposed to” meaning?
CLIENT: Everybody else has a mother.
THERAPIST: Everybody else has one.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: I'm sure there are some other people that are the same, at the same note.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (deep breath) You were twelve when your mother passed away?
CLIENT: No, (inaudible 09:47:09).
THERAPIST: You never counted on it, did you?
CLIENT: On losing her? No, of course not.
THERAPIST: So when that happened, your world changed. What did it do to your belief system?
CLIENT: (deep breath) I was afraid to really trust anything to be there or to—I was reluctant to take anybody as a—take anybody's word for uhm,
as, as gospel or if they told me something, I sort of like ah, really didn't depend on it.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000699481

3/13

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

THERAPIST: So you're taking change... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Uh-hmm. Yeah.
THERAPIST: ... to “I can't trust anyone”?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And almost tells that what I hear you saying is that you stand that you were vulnerable.
CLIENT: Oh my goodness, yeah.
THERAPIST: And it brought into the essence to your vulnerability as a human?
CLIENT: I'm afraid that...
THERAPIST: So how does the change in thinking affect the way you feel and what happens in your life at that point?
CLIENT: Well, my father was a very ah, hard person. Domineering.
THERAPIST: When you say “hard” you mean?
CLIENT: Ahhh, no, no emotion, no feeling. There was no getting close to him.
THERAPIST: So you drew that from your mom?
CLIENT: Oh, yeah.
THERAPIST: And when that was gone?
CLIENT: There was no—there was really no love, really that I felt love. No love.
THERAPIST: Where did you get it from?
CLIENT: Uhm, I, I didn't.
THERAPIST: How did you adjust to that?
CLIENT: I probably shut it out. Shut out the fact that I needed that.
THERAPIST: How did you do that?
CLIENT: ‘Cause I just didn't think about it. And I really didn't wanna get real close to people because I don't wanna lose anybody, but I've got to.
THERAPIST: So if we go back to the thought about trust, that you can trust because when you do, you're vulnerable and if you lose, that hurts?
CLIENT: Deﬁnitely.
THERAPIST: So you sort of lie in yourself, in the sense.
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: So the way you conducted your life?
CLIENT: Probably, some. Uh-hmmm. ‘Cause that's why I became very involved in my work.
THERAPIST: (deep breath) But you got married at, uhm, age 21?
CLIENT: Almost 23.
THERAPIST: Twenty-three. Tell us how that happened?
CLIENT: Well, let's see. I have a son. I was—I had a job when I was working down in Florida and, uhm, at a ﬂower shop and the, (deep breaths)
my husband uh, had—was a landscaper working for (deep breaths) a landscaping company down there, and uhm, I had met him and I was taking a
shot of his, uhm, display things and there and... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Photographs?
CLIENT: Photographs. Sorry. And uhm, but uh, we've just got to talking and then, uhm, he uhm, asked out for dinner and we just sort of, just went
on from there, you know...
THERAPIST: (deep breath) Went in a big chunk out. In my mind, uhhm, I think it was really important for us to talk about this. You say, “We just
went on from there.” What you did was, you became intimately involved and then you married.
CLIENT: Well, I didn't get too intimate before I got married.
THERAPIST: Well, I don't mean that's really physically, what I mean, emotionally.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000699481

4/13

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

CLIENT: Maybe.
THERAPIST: Well.
CLIENT: I guess. It might have been that I was looking for somebody to—at that time, you know...
THERAPIST: To?
CLIENT: Huh?
THERAPIST: To?
CLIENT: To have for my own, to care about and to care about me.
THERAPIST: Sounds like it's a pretty trusting thing to me.
CLIENT: It sounds like a trusting thing?
THERAPIST: Didn't that facilitate some vulnerability?
CLIENT: Uh-Hmm.
THERAPIST: So you did trust again at some point?
CLIENT: Yes, I did, sure. Somewhat... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: But maybe, still a little shut off or insulated?
CLIENT: Uh-huh. I don't know that it was a total trust, as much as just, uhm, fulﬁlling a need that I had and I got to take a step.
THERAPIST: So you took a step, you got married.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And you had a family.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: What about your interaction—interaction with the kids?
CLIENT: With me?
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: Well, when they were children—babies, it was wonderful. It's just wonderful.
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm, but, Linda, this schema that you took with you through your life, about keeping a distance, uhm, not trusting, not allowing
yourself to be exposed and being vulnerable. How did you manage that, in a situation in which you interacted in the marriage, you had children that
in many ways require that kind of reciprocation?
CLIENT: How did I, how did I maintain a distance?
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: When I had children, basically? Well, I wasn't afraid of the children rejecting me.
THERAPIST: So you didn't maintain... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: When they—when they were babies
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Ahh, in fact, everything was not too bad when they were babies. Just as they got older.
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: Uhm.
THERAPIST: What happen when they get older?
CLIENT: Uhmm, Well, I think basically, what happened is they grew into boys and then to young men and then they begun to identify more of
their father.
THERAPIST: And what's he like?
CLIENT: Just an average guy.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000699481

5/13

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

THERAPIST: Help me with that, I don't (laughs) know. I'm not sure I can—exactly what that is
CLIENT: Well, I mean he's a very nice person. He's just ah—he just doesn't really, you know, think a lot, not a deep thinker and he sort of like takes
everyday as it comes and he uhm, he doesn't question things much... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: ... he, ah, enjoys working out in the yard and he doesn't ask too much...
THERAPIST: You see him parallel between he and your father?
CLIENT: They're both male.
THERAPIST: Okay, that's a start, anything else?
CLIENT: My father was—in my eyes are very cool—cold ah, uncaring, unloving, selﬁsh man. I wouldn't use those words to describe my husband.
THERAPIST: They're not positive qualities, I would say, huh?
CLIENT: My father?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Any positive qualities that he had?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. He kept food on the table.
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: Make sure that bills were paid.
THERAPIST: Your husband is different than that?
CLIENT: Yeah, I would say, he's different. He's not cool...
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: ... he's not, ah— he's not a real boring person either, but he's not cool.
THERAPIST: You know, one would think that you would almost be inclined to ﬁnd someone the opposite of your dad in a spouse, almost
somebody that was more like your mother.
CLIENT: Do you think that?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I, I don't know. I must— I've—Just not run into the uh, enough men in my life. But I haven't really ah, found many men who are very
warm and uh, kind and...
THERAPIST: So you—you believe is that they, they don't exist? (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ... is that what went on?
CLIENT: Well, I guess they exist. I just haven't found any.
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: I haven't really allowed myself to be open to re-marry (ph) either so.
THERAPIST: (deep breath) Do you see any connection to your, to your family and yourself open and, and trusting to how your life has going in a
certain direction?
CLIENT: Sort of like ah, ah, sort of like, I'm not living myself much... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: ...to work with or, uhm...
THERAPIST: How much control do you really have with that?
CLIENT: Uhmmm, I suppose from your point of view, I should have total control of it.
THERAPIST: uh, my point of view, did you say?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000699481

6/13

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

CLIENT: I mean, you are the doctor.
THERAPIST: What do you think? That's what I want to know.
CLIENT: I guess, I should have control over it. I mean, I'm an educated person and ah, I've been through enough life experiences to somewhat ahh,
but I guess, it's just trying to get that whatever it is inside of me to, to do it or to fall from within...
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm. What do you think procludes you from pulling from within?
CLIENT: I don't know. (murmurs)
THERAPIST: Taking it... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: There...
THERAPIST: ... just anything with your belief.
CLIENT: Which belief?
THERAPIST: Well, the belief that, that it's not good to expose yourself, it's not good to be vulnerable.
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: Or as you say the fear...
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: ... but I think fear describes more of the—of an emotional reaction and a behavioral reaction ah, uhm, what I'm interested in then is,
to really understand the way you think because in the modal cognitive behavior therapy, the way in which you perceive and think about things has
tremendous impact on the way which individuals feel and behave. And that becomes a circular thing in the sense that in the way we feel and
behave, contributes to the way which people respond to us and that felt us back into the way we think and around, around we go. A little bit like the
way you dealt with the trauma of your losing your Mom. And going on with the rest of your life, particularly because of the way Dad was and—So,
do I make any sense?
CLIENT: Uh-hmm. Uh-hmm. There've been moments—there's been times in my life when I felt ah, uhm, positive and, and ah, feel that I could do
anything.
THERAPIST: Really? When? You talk about it... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Oh, rare of moments (laughs)...
THERAPIST: Can you recall it?
CLIENT: Uhm. (sighs) Maybe in school, I guess.
THERAPIST: This is high school?
CLIENT: Uh, College. In school ah, when I had ah, entered the photograph in a contest and I won ﬁrst place and I felt very proud like, you know, I
had really did something and uh, and I felt like I could do anything but that was short-lived, that didn't—I realized that...
THERAPIST: But before you did that—did you have the trepidations about taking the risk to enter your work in the contest?
CLIENT: Well, uhm, some.
THERAPIST: But you took a risk?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What enabled you to take that risk?
CLIENT: Maybe I ah, maybe I had wanted two glasses of beer (ph)?
THERAPIST: (exhale) Really?
CLIENT: (deep breath) I don't know, I don't know I just probably had a—I don't know, I had—I don't know, that was a weak moment (laughs)...
THERAPIST: So it isn't more of a calculated moment?
CLIENT: Maybe.
THERAPIST: Maybe. The fact that matters is you took the risk. I mean, could have gotten in no place, depending, right?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: How would that affected you if you had?

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000699481

7/13

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

CLIENT: I don't know. (sighs) It might have probably even made things worse. You know that I, I wouldn't come ever— Of course, I really didn't
do much after that as far as... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: ... taking a chance on me...
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: ... after that.
THERAPIST: But I think that was a valiant move to take a, a risk because it's, you know, a matter of accepting your work, accepting a part of
yourself, I mean I would assume you—did you interject yourself into your work?
CLIENT: Do I interject my—of course, yes. I used to love my work. I used to really love my work a lot. I'd be away from home a lot and ah, but
lately I really don't, I really don't care anymore.
THERAPIST: Alright. Or we can come back to that. The point trying to make is that, you took a risk, you put yourself on, on a line a little bit. And
in that particular situation, it was well accepted, you, you won a ﬁrst place. But that was the end of it. You d-didn't take anymore risks. And that
was probably considered the low level risk for you, as compared to, to trusting in a relationship. You know, that's an example of evidence that
supports the notion that sometimes taking a risk has a positive outcome. I'm trying to understand what inhibits you from doing that with other
things?
CLIENT: I-I guess it's the fear or afraid that I'm not going to be ah, liked or, or maybe I'll be rejected. People will reject my—who I am.
THERAPIST: Do you show the way that your mother's death was kind of rejection?
CLIENT: Who was rejecting me?
THERAPIST: Her.
CLIENT: I mean, she was trying to make such a point with me, to tell me that she didn't (deep breath) want to be with me, so she died?
THERAPIST: No, no. I think she—I think we both know she died in natural causes. There was nothing that could be done about that. But I wonder
whether or not in a, in a symbolic sense that's an abandonment or, or feeling that's similar to rejection. ‘Cause when somebody rejects you, they
don't really have anything else to do with you, did he?
CLIENT: No. My father was around all the time. And he rejected me. He had nothing to do with me really.
THERAPIST: So that's... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: There...
THERAPIST: ... that's really where more, more stronger conceptualization comes, in terms of the vulnerability and people rejecting you. Had even
more accepting if you're, maybe it wouldn't had a different impact on you subsequent to mom's death.
CLIENT: He made me feel like there was nothing about me that was really ah, desirable or I had anything ah, that anybody would really be
interested in.
THERAPIST: Did you have any other evidence that contradict that?
CLIENT: No. I don't think so.
THERAPIST: Are you sure?
CLIENT: Evidence that contradicts that I had nothing that anybody would be interested in?
THERAPIST: That you had something.
CLIENT: In high school? No, I, I can't. No, I can't think of anything.
THERAPIST: What about... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I just didn't really get into anything in school.
THERAPIST: But because of your avoidance. Do you have your avoidance?
CLIENT: No. I didn't wanna a—I didn't want to subject myself to being hurt?
THERAPIST: But you never had any other evidence from anyone else or any situation in life that said you were worthwhile.
CLIENT: Well, I guess if I believed in God, I would think that He ah, gave me two healthy children. He must have uh, thought that maybe I was
worthwhile enough to have two children.
THERAPIST: Okay. How about anybody here on earth? You said a little while you got an award for your picture.
CLIENT: Mmm.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000699481

8/13

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

THERAPIST: Was that a sympathy award or—that they gave that to you based on your hard work?
CLIENT: They gave that to my picture. They did not give that to me.
THERAPIST: You had nothing to do with the picture?
CLIENT: Ah, I took a picture.
THERAPIST: Do you choose a subject to take a picture of, okay?
CLIENT: That was probably luck.
THERAPIST: Maybe. Maybe not. Is it a possibility that she did have some worthwhile qualities that allowed you to have a good eye? To choose
something that was worthy of the prize to photograph?
CLIENT: Maybe, I guess you could look at it that way.
THERAPIST: That's another way of looking at it. I'm not necessary saying that, that's the only way to look at it but it's an alternative. And what I
wanna introduce to you today is some ideas of considering alternatives to styles of thinking because, you know, when I'm listen to you, when I look
at this background and I take a look at w-what were your complaints in your life is right now that you don't have what you thought you had. I guess
the thing that comes into my mind is, "Why have you invested?”
CLIENT: What have I invested?
THERAPIST: Yeah, what have you really invested in your life?
CLIENT: (sighs) Uhm, twenty-three years of marriage.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I think my time is pretty valuable investment. Uhm...
THERAPIST: But you don't take any risks?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Okay. And, and again, I'm not all mean that it is (inaudible 00:29:29.5) ﬂash (ph) and then in any—anyway but, you know, you, you
—it's a fact. You don't take any risks because if you go back and take a look at the structure the, the potential for living yourself too vulnerable, is
too great. Is too big of a risk, so since you're not ready to take it, so in that sense, you've avoided it...
CLIENT:Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: One of the things you needed to do is to take responsibility for that. Okay? And when I say, "Take responsibility," I mean, to try to
understand that there's a connection between that. And also taking responsibility, that, that, you've got the capability to change that. If you choose
to take a look at things in a different light, in a different alternative mode which we just did a minute ago. Little pains taken away but we did it.
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: Does that make any more of a case for understanding how your thoughts and feelings are? And your life is connected?
CLIENT: (deep breaths) I don't know. I don't know. All I know is that I, I do not have ah—my life is not rare, I think it should be at this point. I
want to be close to my husband. It's kind of late to have a relationship with my sons like I would like to have had because they were all pretty old
now.
THERAPIST: Well, you can't have a relationship with them as they were children but uhm, they're always gonna be your off-spring?
CLIENT: I just think that ah, life, life has a way of, ah, teaching us things about parents didn't—couldn't...
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: ... and ah, I think, if I can get the—if I can get that connection back with my husband...
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: ... that everything else will fall into place.
THERAPIST: How do you think you're gonna do that?
CLIENT: (deep breath) I don't know. He doesn't seem to be really interested...
THERAPIST: How do you know?
CLIENT: ... in me. Well, I don't know. I guess, I don't know—I don't—I don't really sit down and, you know, uhm, take the initiative to. And why
should I?
THERAPIST: Well... (crosstalk)
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000699481

9/13

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

CLIENT: Why should I?
THERAPIST: (deep breath) Maybe the word "investment"? You want a return, you have to give an investment. It's a little bit of give and take.
CLIENT: Like if I, if I let him know that I am hurting, how do I know that he won't use that against me? How do I know?
THERAPIST: We don't have any guarantees, but in one sense you're looking at, in it as all or nothing thing. We don't have to keep ourselves
completely vulnerable but maybe if we try to take a few little steps, that maybe a way of easing in to say, so if there is some rejection, or is some
part is not too great. The other thing is it do some communication with him. Maybe it's important to let him know what some of your fears are and
your vulnerability. And that you worry that he would reject you. You're taking my lesson to heart?
CLIENT: If I let him know my vulnerability?
THERAPIST: No. If you not let him know that you fear some rejection from him and you're hesitant to express your feelings.
CLIENT: I just don't know that he, he know—I don't that he knows me. I don't know that I know him anymore. (clears throat) It would almost be
similar to going up to somebody, an acquaintance, and then pouring out your heart to them and not knowing how they're gonna respond. That's I
feel about him, I mean, we just sort of live together. We don't really share anything and beside, you know, what I mean? Haven't... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: But you don't communicate about what you feel?
CLIENT: No. I don't really talk to him about it.
THERAPIST: But there's a possibility that you might ﬁnd it. You share more than you think. I mean, some sharing must have occurred in twentysome years of marriage. Hmm. (deep breaths) I think you have the right to know, one way or the other, and the only way we can get—gather some
evidence is to take a chance and maybe do some experiment?
CLIENT: Such as?
THERAPIST: Well, how would you feel about the uhm, disclosing a little bit of this to him?
CLIENT: Well, I, I think that's gonna be the only way I have to—(deep breaths) that's the only way I have to, ah, get him to...
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: ... listen, just to tell him how I'm feeling (sighs)...
THERAPIST: How are you gonna approach it?
CLIENT: I have no idea.
THERAPIST: (sniffs) Okay. (sighs) Well, let's see if we can think of some (sighs) way. Do you have a particular topic or area that we can approach
that would be—(exhale) maybe, maybe not too involved but...
CLIENT: (deep breaths) Well, I suppose I could uhm, as he's doing one of his projects, drop by, sort of go out with my camera...
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.
CLIENT: ... and tell him that I would like to take some shots of his ah, work. His specialty isn't in display somewhere and I could, and I could bring
a little of his work and a little of my work in ah, together and then I think that could be a starting place for us to start talking...
THERAPIST: So what would you begin to talk about?
CLIENT: Probably, the ways to improve. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Well, what he should do to improve?
CLIENT: (laughs) Just kidding.
THERAPIST: Why you might alienate him that, if you do that?
CLIENT: I don't know. I would do a way to start, I guess, we start something, we could share something like that, share something that we had in
common...
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: ... his work and my work.
THERAPIST: And what are your expectations of what you would like to see?
CLIENT: I would like to see him ah, I would like to see his (deep breaths) uhm, (sighs) I'd like to see his, ah, (sighs) I would like to see his
happiness in his eyes and love. And I would like for him to make me feel (sighs) that he loves me.
THERAPIST: Little bit of what, what you'd like to see with your father too?
CLIENT: What?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000699481

10/13

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

THERAPIST: Same with what you would like to see with your dad?
CLIENT: I would like for him to love me, treat me like that. And he never will. And he never will.
THERAPIST: And who is like that, your Dad or your husband?
CLIENT: My Dad. My father has never really loved me.
THERAPIST: Will you talk to him now?
CLIENT: No, no, no, not in this level—not like this—I don't really ...
THERAPIST: (sighs) Did you... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Ahh, huh?
THERAPIST: Ahh, I'm sorry. Go ahead.
CLIENT: Well, he won't. I'm not going to. He's not feeling like, uhm, I'm that, well, talk to him about things like this. He's not a person, he is who
he is, and kinda like gonna change.
THERAPIST: Alright. Did you ever think that maybe your Dad wasn't capable of showing that kind of... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Oh, I'm sure of it.
THERAPIST: But does it necessarily mean that he doesn't feel it inside?
CLIENT: I don't think that people can feel love, can feel love and not be able to show it. I don't understand that it can't be done. Can it be done?
THERAPIST: It's possible. Would you be willing to talk to your Dad?
CLIENT: And tell him that I want him to express his feelings towards me?
THERAPIST: No. But maybe, accepting that would be difﬁcult for him. But I'm wondering, maybe you, you tried a different approach and asked
him if it was difﬁcult for him to express that?
CLIENT: (deep breaths) I guess, maybe I could have done that awhile ago but he's really quite late right now. And I don't think he would even
really understand. (sniffs) I think it's something that is just done for us now. And ah, it's just something that I wouldn't be able to, to have from my
father...
THERAPIST: Uh-hmm.
CLIENT: ... and I think it is—it affected my relationships with men through out my life.
THERAPIST: But if you reframe with respect that, that, the, that possibly Dad didn't know how to express it, and there's a possibility that maybe he
did feel it? Okay? That's one way to at least, to put it in a different respective.
CLIENT: You mean, I could tell myself that, it would make me feel better?
THERAPIST: Well, it's a possibility. It's an alternative to entertain.
CLIENT: I have spent my whole life telling myself things to make me feel better about situation, so that it doesn't hurt when people behave in such
a mean or cool or ignorant way. I tell myself, this is what I've been doing to Dad, so that it doesn't hurt so much, you know. I mean, it's been a
lifetime doing that. I'm almost tired of trying to understand everybody else.
THERAPIST: But isn't this more of understanding yourself? You know, when I said about reframing, you know, the fact of the matter is that,
because your father didn't demonstrate that, it doesn't mean that he didn't feel that, but what's more important, it doesn't mean that your unlovable.
CLIENT: That's probably it. That's probably it. I don't feel lovable. I think that's the word.
THERAPIST: And when you think about that feeling, and you trace it back to the thoughts, will it tell yourself about your ability to be lovable? Or
loved?
CLIENT: Uhmmm, I don't know. I think I'm all right.
THERAPIST: Do you base everything about your father's response?
CLIENT: (deep breaths) Kind of.
THERAPIST: It sounded like your Mom, loved you as much as she could until she passed away.
CLIENT: She did. I think she did. It's just that her loss. I mean that's the, the only love I have in my life and then I lost that.
THERAPIST: I don't know it's the only love you had in your life because after that I think you closed off.
CLIENT: So are you saying, you have to make yourself vulnerable, you have to open up in order to get love? You have to subject yourself to all
kinds of possible hurt?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000699481

11/13

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

THERAPIST: It's a part of life.
CLIENT: And then how do you—when you do subject yourself like that how do you bounce back
THERAPIST: Well, it depends. We can take a look at some coping strategies which probably you wanna do a little bit in the future and ah, (sniffs)
different methods for interpreting situations and, and what they mean to us. But I think for now, all I wanna do is plan to see for you to consider
that there's, there's different methods of conceptualization and there's different styles of thinking about situations that occur in our lives, that we
have a choice. And one of the things that we have a choice is to do, is to, is to weigh the evidence that exists and try to get a balance and
perspective. (coughs) And I don't think you've done that because it strikes me that you've, you've kind of a retreated into a safety zone by just not
taking any risks. So I understand how that occurred...
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: ... but you're here today because you're not getting that kind of life that you want?
CLIENT: Right. I just wanna be able to experience (sniffs) for the rest of my life feeling some kind of an emotion other than (sniffs) Dad and being
afraid or ah—(sniffs) I would like to feel secure and ah, excited about life and, you know, everything that it has to offer.
THERAPIST: And one of the things that I think you need to do, is consider altering some of the way in which you look at things and you think
about.
CLIENT: How do I do that?
THERAPIST: Well, cognitive behavior therapy is designed to help people, ah, make some modiﬁcations in a way in which they process thoughts
and misperception and one of the things that we need to do is to consider some alternatives and particularly, with regard to this schema or beliefs
system that, that you've been using most of the your life. And see whether or not there are some alternatives that we can consider. Otherwise, it
means taking a few risks. Making some behavioral changes, as well as, changes in our thinking.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Through some exercises that we'll do. Some little experiments that we'll do to gather some new information that will help you
balance out your beliefs systems (sniffs) about life and relationships.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Are you willing to give it a try?
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: You look a little skeptical.
CLIENT: How can I exercise it? (laughs)
THERAPIST: Well, we'll talk about that, ah, uhm, I'll share some of it with you.
CLIENT: Okay. I'm willing to try, give it a try.
THERAPIST: Okay. (sniff) You know, I sensed that the life circumstances had a pivotal point.
CLIENT: Very deﬁnitely.
THERAPIST: You know, I think the signiﬁcance would be mainly agent (ph) with your Mom died, and your father dying, now that means that, you
know, the ball is in your court and you had a rest of your life to do what whatever you choose to do.
CLIENT: Well, you're right because ah, my mother has been gone for a long time, my father will be gone and ah, my boys are leaving and my
husband is there, but he isn't. I'm the only one left for me... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: It's a good place to start?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Would you come back?
CLIENT: (deep breaths) Yeah.
THERAPIST: Alright. (sighs) Some of our work may also involve the leading (clears throat) kind of the help stimulate the thinking and generate
some conditional insight into the way which you deal with things in your life. Would you be willing to do some of that?
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: Do you like to read?
CLIENT: No. But if it's gonna help me, ah... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Okay. Alright. One of the other things that we do in cognitive therapy, too, is to, to keep like some data, some law, or some shrack of
things and I often encourage people to keep a little bit of a diary, in terms of how they feel, but most importantly, ah, ah, I really been interested in
seeing that— to have you links some of your thoughts and emotions. And see whether there's any connection to, and for example, if you look—that
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000699481

12/13

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

we perform, hence, maybe helpful too. And the idea is that to list some situation that occur in your life and then record thoughts that go through
your mind about that situation. Okay. And right now, all I want from you is to also keep track of some of the emotions and experience and wanna
take the ﬁrst step and see whether or not any of the emotions that you experienced have a connection to the thoughts. And whether there are
thoughts that have anything to do with your basic beliefs about the situation, because later, one of the things we're gonna do is begin to challenge
some of those beliefs, by looking at new evidence that exists.
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: Now, the philosophy of cognitive therapy states that the individual sometimes develops distorted beliefs. That, the, they used to
govern their life for years and years and years. And sometimes it's based on erroneous information.
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: So it's challenging some of those distortions with the information that, you know, may help alter some of the ways in which you
think, if that occurs, may have profound effect in your life.
CLIENT: And if doesn't occur?
THERAPIST: They will have to deal with it. There's no guarantee but there's possibility.
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: (sniffs) One thing we know, if we don't do it, things will stay the same.
CLIENT: Exactly. (indistinct sound)
THERAPIST: So what's the loss in trying?
CLIENT: Right. I agree.
THERAPIST: Okay. Would you like to meet again?
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: Alright. See you next time.
CLIENT: Okay. (indistinct sound)
END TRANSCRIPT

back to top
Copyright © 2008 by Alexander Street Press, LLC • About | Help | Terms of Use

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000699481

13/13

