8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Home
Browse
Browse All Works
Browse Client Narratives
Browse Reference
Browse Session Transcripts
Browse Subjects
Browse Symptoms
Browse Therapies
Search
Help
All Works  »  Full Text

  

GO

Search:

Full Text
Session 4: Client misses her family and feels guilt and grief for the loss of family members, in Client 405:
Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety, (2006), pp. 1-19
 show metadata

« Previous   

Session 4: Client misses her family and feels guilt and grief for the loss of family members

   Next »

TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
_____________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: MP. November 16. Therapist: Betty
COUNSELOR: Flats instead.
PATIENT: And shorts and it's like really cold out. You guys are going to get sick. But I guess if you're from
Michigan.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I don't see how folks do what they. And even when it snows! People are still in shorts and tshirts.
PATIENT: But you're from Michigan, right?
COUNSELOR: I'm actually from Ohio.
PATIENT: Oh, okay. You're from the Midwest. Okay.
COUNSELOR: I just have been here for the last seven years or so.
PATIENT: So there were some words in my ... in that computer thing?
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094426

1/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: That I didn't understand. So I left them blank. If you explain to me what the word means, I can tell you.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I have to go through it, and see which ones were left blank. And if that's used for information,
I'll let you know.
PATIENT: Okay. I called one of my friends and asked her a couple of questions. And I was like, "What is sloppy?"
And she's like, "Messy. Disorganized." It's like, "Okay. Thank you." (laughs) [0:01:11.2]
COUNSELOR: (laughs) You were [able to] (ph) get some help. Have you ever seen "Who Wants to be a
Millionaire?" The game show where you call and use a lifeline?
(laughter)
PATIENT: I had to call a friend. That's how it was.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. Let me give this to you. This is just a statement that we do every month.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Just outlining if you had a balance or not, we would talk about that. But it seems like your [folks are
doing that] (ph). You don't have to worry about that.
PATIENT: Well [why I don't tell you that] (ph)... I don't know. I'm glad I have health insurance. Living without
health insurance here, it would be...
COUNSELOR: Believe it or not, there are people every day who don't have health insurance.
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean if you don't work, it's hard to.
COUNSELOR: Deﬁnitely and then you know, it's great to have it.
PATIENT: Yeah. I'm-I feel happy to have it. And the university one is really good.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hm. Deﬁnitely. So let's talk about this for a moment. Have some concerns come up for you?
When you found out that I was sick? You told me I was... Listen to you!
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: No. I'm just kidding. I was like, "The ﬂu! Oh my God. That's hard." No, I'm just kidding. I was. I don't
know, I was just kidding. Don't worry. I know you're not going to die because of the ﬂu.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I just want to check because sometimes things happen and it brings up, you know.
PATIENT: No, but yeah. I mean, yeah. I would be concerned if you were really sick.
COUNSELOR: Okay, okay. Well that was just cold. And I'm not going anywhere.
PATIENT: (laughs) I'm just kidding. I'm sorry.
COUNSELOR: You don't have to be sorry. But that's true you know. Especially with things happening in the past
and it seems like something may be headed that direction. It makes sense that that concern, that fear or that worry
would come up then. (ph)
PATIENT: No, and I was thinking about what we talked last time. And I - and you were right. I never had the
opportunity to... how do you say that. To gray... [0:03:17.7]
COUNSELOR: Grieve?
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: Grieve?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094426

2/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Grieve. Exactly. Grieve that then. And then my mother had cancer. I had to be the strong one so I never
had the opportunity to sit down and cry. When my mom had cancer a year before that, her - my mom's best friend
died from cancer. Breast cancer, too. And two weeks after she dec-her name was Peta. After Peta died from cancer,
my uncle died from cancer. And my uncle and my mom were really really close.
So when my mom found out she had cancer. I mean, fortunately they found out that really, in a very very early
stage. They just removed the breast. And that was it. She didn't have to go through chemotherapy or anything. But I
had to be so strong. And... and I understood that it was an early stage that things... I never had the opportunity to sit
down and cry or-I don't know, I think when you are in the world of science and research, and you do medical
research? You kind of understand scientiﬁc, yeah, a lot of things.
But I think that sometimes understanding those things makes it harder to grieve and to cry and to think that... It's
kind of like-I don't know, it's like understanding it and knowing what happens and what cannot happen is sometimes ﬁghts that part. Sometimes your brain ﬁghts with your soul. With your emotions. [0:05:05.5]
So it's like I-after I talked to you, I understood it. I never cried. Well, yeah, I cried but I never expressed completely
my feelings because my brain was also telling me, "It's an early stage cancer. And these stages are not." Breast
cancer is something that is not-it's easy to detect so. I don't know, I just realized that. It's okay. I can understand how
things are but I need to.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And that's exactly how it happens, Marta. We intellectualizePATIENT: Everything.
COUNSELOR: Our situation. We intellectualize our pain even that's connected to a situation. So we don't feel or
allow ourselves the opportunity to experience the feelings.
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Yeah, it's like-yeah. You give yourself all the reas-all the answers.
COUNSELOR: The rationalizations and the... mmm-hm.
PATIENT: And yeah, it's like, I had the right to block my brain in those. I need to block my brain in those situations.
COUNSELOR: Yeah because what happens if we don'tPATIENT: Then after ﬁve years, everything comes out like a boom. So yeah. So I understood what you were trying
to-what you were asking me and trying to tell me.
COUNSELOR: Well good, yeah. [0:06:27.3]
PATIENT: Yeah but I-yeah. And it's all about understanding the stupid. You know the disease or understanding the
person is old. Like my grandmother died? When did she die... I think it was in August-July August. She was really
really sick and really really old. And so-and she was there in Portugal. And I'm here. And you kind of like-so she
died. And the ﬁrst thing I said was, "Oh my God. That's so good. She was suffering so much. She had-because she
had this cancer. You see I never... That's how I realize.
COUNSELOR: You realize what?
PATIENT: That I never told you that she-my grandmother died and she had cancer. Because I don't know. When
they tell me. She was really sick and they didn't know why she was sick. She couldn't eat for I don't know how
many months. And then-oh my God. I'm just shocked that I just realized that she died from cancer too.
COUNSELOR: What's so shocking about it?
PATIENT: When you asked me who died from cancer, I didn't have-I don't know. I never put her in the list. And I
just realized that. So like theyCOUNSELOR: Any particular reason why you wouldn't have put her in the list? [0:07:51.3]
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094426

3/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: I don't know. Because-I don't know why I did it. Because she actually-she died from a respiratory. How
do you say that, like-she stopped breathing. But she had cancer. The thing, okay, the thing is, she was really sick.
Nobody knew what she had. They took her to the hospital. The doctors saw her and they couldn't ﬁnd out. And after
three days, they found out it was an amar (ph) or whatever. She a really really bad cancer. So they never treated her
or anything. And she died four years after-four days or ﬁve days after the doctors realized that.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Wow. [0:08:35.7]
PATIENT: So that-that yeah. So yeah, perhaps that's why I never put her...
COUNSELOR: That must have been really difﬁcult.
PATIENT: It was really hard. First, she was really sick for a lot of-long time. So you feel bad because she's
suffering. Then I was not in Portugal and my mom was there by her-with my father. And my grandfather died in
December so. So what? So, and I haven't seen my mom since that happened. I'm going back next month and... so
yeah. Sometimes this something happens to me too.
COUNSELOR: Sure, go ahead.
PATIENT: That I'm here. I'm really happy to be here. I know this is what I want. But being away makes you feel
like... how you say that in English. Guilty, because you're not there. And they understand that I'm here. My parents,
they-what they tell me is like, "Nothing can make us more happy that you're there." But then you feel guilty that you
cannot go back. And I would be-I would love to have the money. If something happens, you just ﬂy there and be
there. But I don't even have-I don't have the money. I don't have the time. I'm not going to ask my parents to give me
money, several times a year to go there. So I feel guilty and I know I shouldn't feel guilty. That's the same thing my
brain- [0:10:14.8]
COUNSELOR: Your brain tells that you shouldn't (inaudible at 0:10:17.8)
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: You shouldn't feel guilty because this is what you want. And this is what is right. So, yeah. So that's that
part. And it was the same when my grandfather died last year. It was the same thing. I was feeling like I should be
there. I shouldn't be here. I should be there with my mom. Or whoever missed me.
My friends, something happened to them and I cannot be there. And I try to call them but then this stupid phone
doesn't work. (laughs) I tried to call Alicia ten times, one of my friends. And the calling card doesn't work so it's
like, "Well!" But you know, it's the same thing. The brain doesn't let me get sad. So after I don't know many months
or whatever, I start feeling bad. And I understand I cannot-I mean I cannot be there.
COUNSELOR: Right. With your heart so ﬁlled, it's like you should be there, you would like to be there.
PATIENT: Yeah. Because I don't know. And I don't think it's bad to feel that I should be there. But I realize that I
cannot. It's so...
COUNSELOR: Sure. Realistically. [0:11:39.6]
PATIENT: Yeah. So. But I still feel sad about not being able to be there.
COUNSELOR: What's saddening about it? What is it that you would like to be able to do that you can't because
you're here.
PATIENT: Be there in that. During the hard times. I don't know. What, like-sit down and be next to the person.
COUNSELOR: What about even being able to say your goodbyes?
PATIENT: Yeah, I think that.
COUNSELOR: If your grandmother passed away while you were here, your grandfather passed away while you
were here.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094426

4/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So on one hand, it's about (inaudible at 0:12:30.4) to console your mom, for losing her parents.
PATIENT: Yeah, I think it's that since we moved to the ﬁrst city? All my family is in another city. So I didn't see my
grandparents or I haven't seen my family in a long time. Four or ﬁve years. And I grew up like that. So I don't feel
bad for not being able to say goodbye because they were never-for a long time, they were not in my same city. But
yeah, of course you wish you had the opportunity to say goodbye. But yeah, so. But it's more like being close to the
people that really needs it. My mom, she was really sad so it would be really good to be there. (cries) And being
able to.
COUNSELOR: You'd be her Kleenex? No? [0:13:35.9]
PATIENT: No, I mean no. Yeah, just to be next-I think in those situations, people... My best friend, her dad died
from a stroke. Brain-yeah. And she always says how we, my other friend and I - we always were there sitting byShe didn't have to tell us what to do or like she needed anything. We just-we were just there. And that's how I feel.
If you are in a really bad moment, and you have some-and you know that you have someone there. To support you
and this person is not someone you have to tell her or him what to do and how you're feeling. Like a really close
person that understands you and is just there. If you're thirsty, they know you're thirsty. If they want to yell at you
because-whatever. Sometimes people get sad and get a little bit mad. That you understand that they're yelling at you,
not because they're mad at you. Just because they're sad. So that's the part that's hard. Not being able to-to be there
in the hard times.
COUNSELOR: Well it sounds like your mom may have been there for you during hard times?
PATIENT: My mom?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I always tell-it's really funny. I always tell my parents everything. "Oh I'm dating this
guy" or "I'm going out with someone." We always tell each other almost everything. And they're-my parents are
always there. At the beginning when I got here. I had a lot of problems with my boss. He's quite crazy. But now I
know how to handle him. and now we have a really good relationship. And he wants me to stay here. But at the
beginning was really hard. It was the worst thing in the world. I don't know if I-I think I told you.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you told me all that stuff. [0:15:51.4]
PATIENT: And I always-I always called my parents. I knew they were going to get a little worried about me. But it
was the only people I could just call and tell them. Because sometimes friends-if you talk a lot about work, they'll
get... (laughs) My parents are always there. I call them and it's like, "I have this problem" or "I'm feeling like this." I
don't know. They understand me a lot. We have a good relationship.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Yeah, and it's good to probably have somebody to just be able to tolerate whatever you feeling
and whatever you're going through. Just to be that container to hold it all and not judge you. Or just to be
supportive. Whatever you're experiencing or going through. [0:16:41.8]
PATIENT: Yeah, so I think I feel bad and not being able. Not only to be there, but also you want to support them,
too? And you cannot.
COUNSELOR: It feels like your hands are tied. And you want to do this but maybe you can't do it.
PATIENT: Yeah, and I know that they are happier now, that I'm here and that I'm following my dream. I'm studying
and I'm - that if I were there, sitting right next to them without doing anything. I would rather have my kids away
and learning and growing up. That, and doing anything in the house. So that's what - that's what's it. My brain says
something and my emotions say another thing.
COUNSELOR: Well hopefully in this space, Marta, we can hear what your heart and your emotions are saying.
PATIENT: Yeah.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094426

5/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: And not so much of your mind because I think, you know, our mind-we allow our minds to say a lot
so that we can go on with our functions and our responsibilities. Right, because if you got in touch with your
feelings at work and allowed yourself to experience this grief or whatever, would you be able to do your job.
You know, and hopefully this is a space where you can give yourself permission or that part of yourself permission
to express yourself. Because you don't-your only task here is to... to talk and be supported. Or get some things off
your chest. You don't have any work deadlines or equations and whatever else you do, right?
PATIENT: Yeah, that's good.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so that's okay. So whatever you experience or whatever comes to you, it's okay to let that out.
Because it sounds like you've experienced a lot of loss. For someone your age in such a short amount of time as far
as the deaths that you've experienced. And then just lots of (inaudible at 0:18:52.0).
PATIENT: Yeah but that COUNSELOR: Hm?
PATIENT: Yeah. I think since Portugal is such-we're-it's a poor country. We also have violence. We also have a lot
of things going on. So I think we're faced with death and with really bad things, more often that what a person from
Whitehall or a small town would. Yeah, so. Yeah and life expectancy in Portugal is way-I mean, way shorter than
here. [0:19:28.7]
COUNSELOR: Really, because that would make sense. I mean if that's the case and people may become more
sensitized or desensitized to death, maybe. If, you know, it happens more frequently, or life expectancy. But there's
still something about losing something that you care about. Even if it's expected. Or if it happens all around you.
And you're - you know, it's still something about losing somebody that is close to you.
PATIENT: Yeah, and when the people like my grandparents, when they're old, always says, "Well they were
suffering a lot. For a long time. They rest." But you still fee-you still feel the loss.
COUNSELOR: Deﬁnitely.
PATIENT: And it's like an irra-an irrational feeling. No, how do you s-yeah it's like very... I don't know. Cavemen
feeling. Nothing has-it has nothing to do with your brain. It's just that you feel it. You believe you know they rested
and they're not suffering anymore. [0:20:39.6]
COUNSELOR: And there's a part of you that feels good about that. And there's a part of you that misses them as a
person, or... you know. And being present in your life in some kind of way. That must have been really scary in
being faced with your mom's own cancer. And not - especially when it happened. When the diagnosis came right
after a series of these other deaths. And I'm just wondering what that was like for you.
PATIENT: And I was in the middle of ﬁnals at the university. So she never told me. She told me. Yeah. I was in
ﬁnals and work and had due dates and things like that. And she never told me. So she found out on her birthday,
which was May 23rd. And then, I was in ﬁnals. They scheduled the surgery and everything. And two days before
the surgery, she tells me. "I have cancer. They're going to-there's going to be a surgery in two days." And I'm like,
"what? How didn't you tell me?" It's like, "You were in exams. I didn't want to-you work really hard during the
whole semester. I didn't want to screw your grades."
COUNSELOR: How did you feel that she didn't tell you? [0:22:05.8]
PATIENT: I think I - at the beginning I was so mad at her. But - but yeah, so I told her, "What is wrong with you?"
How do you say that in English. I faced her. "How didn't you tell me this? Why do you have to get this for
yourself?" And she's like, "Well you were in your exams. I didn't want to get in your school." And then... but then,
the surgery came. So I felt mad at her for a couple of-what, a day or something. And then I was really sad.
I think it was normal. Like, I got mad at her but then I realized, I have to be there. And it's not that you-she kept it
for herself. She told my parent-my father. They were... and she told me one week after she found out. So yeah, so. I
felt mad but then I didn't anymore. I just felt really sad. And then the surgery went really well. And then she washttp://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094426

6/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

she, then she kept going to the mammograms. Mammograms? What? Every six months, and then one day she came
home and said, "Oh! Now I have to go only once a year." And, so that was good. [0:23:58.8]
COUNSELOR: And so how did you feel at that point, when she came back with that news?
PATIENT: Oh! I mean, really good. But-yeah. Really, really good. But I still feel-it's-I mean-I know a lot of people.
That, her friends for example. A lot of people develop the cancer ten years after or, you know, like. So I cannot close
my eyes and say, "She's completely..."
COUNSELOR: So that fear of her...
PATIENT: And then also, I don't know. I'm one of the people that think that - a lot of stress, a lot of depression,
things like that, can make things easier so you can get cancer again? And she always stressed. You know, like, wellshe has - my brother, drives her crazy. And then she... I don't know. She was really depressed. Now she's going-I
told you she's going to this psychiatrist. I don't know. She's been through a lot of stress in the last three or four years.
So that-I always tell her, "You have to-You have to calm down. And you have to think about you. Look for some
kind of way to-because you're going to get sick again." And that's what the doctor always tells her. "If you keep
going in so much stress and depression, you're going to get sick again." So I always tell her. "You have to think that
you can get sick again. Please."
COUNSELOR: So in a sense it sounds like you sometimes feel responsible for your mom, and her health? Or...
PATIENT: No. It's just that...
COUNSELOR: Okay. [0:25:55.1]
PATIENT: No, like I'm - I'm afraid that it can happen. And sometimes she needs someone that tells her that she can that she needs to calm down. So I get really serious and I'm like, "You have to-you have to." For example, I tell her,
"You have to exercise more often. You need to this..."
Because I think sometimes she leaves-so worried. She's so worried about my brother or the problems with her
family. Oh because I have uncles that are awful so they ﬁght all the time. Since she's stays in the middle, all the
problems come to her. So I have to tell her, "You have to take time for yourself. You have to make friends. You have
to do things that are for you."
COUNSELOR: So how does it feel watching your mom go through this period of stress? How-what is it like for
you, to experience that?
PATIENT: Well I-it's hard. I think it's really hard to see. But - but I also see that we're humans and all the moms are
like that. All my friends.
COUNSELOR: Is that your emotions speaking? Or your mind speaking? Maria?
PATIENT: No no no no no. It's my emotions. I always get-it's hard, it's hard. But I'm happy that-for example, I tell
her, "You have to exercise more." And she listens to me. And she tells me or says something and like "Well I'll try
it." And then she does it. And that's good. I can tell her something and she always takes my advice in a good way.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So in that way you may feel validated or afﬁrmed? [0:27:58.0]
PATIENT: Yeah. And COUNSELOR: That she listens to some things?
PATIENT: Yeah, and more like helpful.
COUNSELOR: Okay. You feel like you're being helpful (inaudible at 0:28:04.3)?
PATIENT: And you know, like sometimes I try to - I feel helpful and feel like I'm doing something good for her tothat it's not... Sometimes it's hard, like to make - like your parents are always helping and helping you. And if you
can help them, and I think that's nice.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094426

7/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: What about that makes you teary now?
PATIENT: That I'm applying to schools and so I - (laughs)-my poor mom. I asked her - - I asked her to do all these,
asked for transcripts, for recommendation letters. Go here, go there. Get ﬁnancial certiﬁcates. Ask for my
professional registra-I graduated and I started doing research. So I never cared about the professional. In Portugal
we use a professional card that says you're a pharmacist, or whatever you are. And I never did that. So she's right
now, running around doing about everything for me. That's why.
COUNSELOR: So you felt bad about that?
PATIENT: No, I tell her all the time. I'm - I mean it. I'm thankful.
COUNSELOR: So your tears are about being grateful about how your mom is helping you. Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah, it's - yeah, it's... yeah.
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:29:33.7)
PATIENT: It has really helped me a lot during-like, I don't know. I called her every day. It's like, "Shoot, I forgot to
send you this." And then it's like, "I'm running out of money." And she's like, "Don't worry, don't worry. If you are
going to get into school, I'll..."
COUNSELOR: So it seems like she's really helpful. (ph)
PATIENT: And my dad is the same thing. They e-mail me twice a day. "Do you think we should do this or we
should do that?" You know, like with all the paperwork they're doing there. I'm grateful. That's why I'm - my tears
come.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah, but. But I tell them, too.
COUNSELOR: So it sounds that, Marta, you talking-began talking earlier about this guilt that you feel about not
being there during hard times. Not being able to support and being supportive of your mom. It sounds like although
you're here, your mom is making steps and making ways for her to be as supportive as she can. Although I'm sure
she would like to be right here with you, right? But she's doing whatever she can. [0:30:38.9]
PATIENT: Yeah. And I think I'm - I'm the same thing.
COUNSELOR: And you're doing the best that you can. Right? You're calling. You're encouraging her, trying to be
helpful. And that's what you can do, given the distance. And the reality is of the situation.
PATIENT: And we talk and she tells me this and that. And so. So I think both of us are being supp - - and like my
dad, too. He's more reserved. He doesn't tell me everything. She even tells me that she ﬁghts with him. And I'm like,
"Mom! Come on."
COUNSELOR: Right, things you don't want to...
PATIENT: But oh well. I'm glad because I can tell her "Don't tell me that." And... but yeah. I think they're really
supportive. And I try to do the same thing, with them. But it's hard. [0:31:37.4]
COUNSELOR: What's hard?
PATIENT: To be far away.
COUNSELOR: I can't imagine what that would be like. How many miles is it? Or how far?
PATIENT: Far. I don't know how far it is. I think that a direct ﬂight would take you, what? Six hours to get there.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094426

8/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: That has to be hard.
PATIENT: Yeah, it's hard.
COUNSELOR: Being (inaudible at 0:32:11.0), yeah. And then to experience some of the things you've talked about
since you've been here. Some of the hard times you've had, and not to have...
PATIENT: Yeah, and then, then again, it's like you're brain is ﬁghting with your emotions because it's like-at the
beginning, happened - - I got here, and I met a lot of people. The ﬁrst three weeks, I kind of didn't realize I was here.
Or like-or like I was going out and there was meeting people. Going out in Whitehall. Having my own apartment,
which it's something-everything is cool. When you get here, things are so cool.
And it's like "Whoa!" I'm where I want to be. A great job, an opportunity. And then after three weeks of my brain
trying to-like the same thing. "Oh my God-everything is marvelous." I had a shock-I was crying for whole days. I
missed my house, I missed my parents. And it's that-it's like I'm always - and I'm always like that. It happened
before. I - I don't let my feelings go out and then, yeah. Then I get really sad. But it happened before. I told you
the...
COUNSELOR: Which one, which time?
PATIENT: Didn't I tell you? No, yeah, that I-there was a semester in school, a fourth semester or something like
that. I was working really hard, and I broke up with my boyfriend.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Yeah, I think I told you. And I never cried. And after all the due-all the deadlines were - like I gave all
my work-I started crying. The doctor said, "You cannot think about anything during the whole week." And I'm like
"Uh!"
COUNSELOR: And that's when you went to go back into therapy? [0:34:07.5]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: That's when I was in college, yeah. So it always happens to me. So, that's why I like to come to therapy
because it's a place where I can say whatever I feel and without being indent-you know, like with-so those things
don't happen.
COUNSELOR: So it doesn't build up to a point where you can't...
PATIENT: Hm?
COUNSELOR: So it doesn't build up to a point where you can't function or do what you need to do.
PATIENT: Yeah. So.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Then I think it was happen-I got here, one and a half year, feeling lonely, being away. All the pressure of
the work. At the beginning, I should have come a year ago. The beginning didn't work. So everything starts to build
up. Then the GRE and applying to schools. And I'm like, "I need to go therapy. I'm going to get crazy if I don't."
Yeah. That. It's good to ... to say things. [0:35:28.3]
COUNSELOR: How does it feel to say, to speak and to talk?
PATIENT: Really good. Really good.
COUNSELOR: Now if you want to stop, you just, you know... No, one way (ph) we give you in here space, to be
able to share or feel or...
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094426

9/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Or cry. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Or cry.
PATIENT: You're going to think the person who cries-I'm the person who-I think if there were a psycho-like-comhow do you say that? A competition of who cries the most in this world, I think I would be one of the...
COUNSELOR: Have you always...
PATIENT: I've been always like this. All my time.
COUNSELOR: Okay. As a kid, too?
PATIENT: Oh my God. I used to cry so much. In school, they used to make fun of me. And then they realized, she's
sensitive. And they like me. But yeah, I've been so so so... and my mom's the same thing.
COUNSELOR: She's sensitive too?
PATIENT: Oh, she cries all the time. You tell her something and she starts crying. And you're like, "Mom! Don't
cry!"
COUNSELOR: So let me ask you this, Marta. You mentioned earlier that when you found out your mom had
cancer, you really couldn't' express your feelings because you had to be strong. So as a person, as you say a person
is made up to sensitive and tender heart and these sorts of things. How did that work out, I mean, you're a sensitive
person but you had to be strong. [0:37:36.5]
PATIENT: I don't-yeah. That's that, like... I don't know. I'm always trying to e the strong person and I'm really
sensitive. But I think I can deal with being strong for short periods of time. And then I just start crying and crying. I
think I'm all-I've been always like that. I can play the strong role, being a strong person. But for a short period of
time. I cannot be-because yeah, I'm very sensitive.
COUNSELOR: What does that look like when you're the strong person?
PATIENT: How does it look when I'm the strong person?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. What does it look like?
PATIENT: How do I act or?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I don't know. I'm not very nice, I think. Just kidding. I don't think-I can be really strong. I can be... I don't
know.
COUNSELOR: What does it mean to be really strong? I'm just trying to get a picture of...
PATIENT: Of what?
COUNSELOR: Of what that looks like for you. Because people have different deﬁnitions of being strong. And I'm
just trying to get a picture of what it looks like, or what it looks for you.
PATIENT: I don't know. For example with all my brother's stuff? I have to tell my parents I'm leaving the house.
And I left my house. So they would just call me on the phone and... I tried to be as strong as possible so they
understand how the bad the situation was. I would never cry. I cry a lot. But I never cry. Or like I would... I don't
know. Yeah, I can - I told them you have to go to therapy. I can... I don't know. How can I describe how strong. I
don't know how to describe that. [0:39:46.3]
COUNSELOR: So, so far, [I guess] (ph) what you're saying-to be strong for you, means that you don't cry. You're
able to... be a...

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094426

10/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Or handle really strong situations. With my thesis in college, it was not working. So I had to go and I
started doing it with volunteers. People who were giving me the samples. I-it was not working. So I had to get
bigger samples. I was trying to make a graph for mouth-health. Like mucosa. Palaton (ph) mucosa. And so it was
not working because the samples were really small from the gum in the back. So it was not working. So I had to - I
had to get big samples. So I had to go and work with dead people.
COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: For six months. And I've never seen anyone dead-I used to get really shocked with dead animals. I would
see a dead mouse and I was just like - - before that-I would cry and get - - but then I had to do my thesis. And I had
to do my research. So I was like, "Okay. Suck it up. You have to do this. " Because I talked with my advisor and
basically I'm like, "Are you sure you want me to do this?" and she's like, "You need to graduate." So I had to start
working with dead people. And this was likeCOUNSELOR: So in other words, whatever you had to do, that's what you'd do.
COUNSELOR: It was bad. It was like, "Ugh." But on the other side, it helped me a lot to kind of enjoy life and
understand. Because you go to these places. I used to go to the crime labs. Where they do the alpha-autopsies of
people who died in car accidents or because someone shot someone else. Or really disgusting things. Not because
someone died because they were sick or a heart attack, no. It was the creepiest thing you can imagine of a big city.
It's like working in Detroit. In a morgue. [0:41:59.6]
And then... I also had to go to the transplant things? When someone dies in a car accident and they donate the
organs. So people who die in car accidents in Lisbon or people my age who were drinking and driving. Or things
like that. So it's looking at people that are you-that could be your brother, your friend. I don't know. That was bad.
But I mean, it helped me appreciate life. And I look at that - well. For six months working surrounded by dead
people. It's like, "Oh my God. You have to enjoy this life. Because there's only one." And no matter who you are or
what you do or where do you come from, you end up on a table.
COUNSELOR: Regardless. [0:42:56.7]
PATIENT: So it was, uh. That was wrong. (ph)
COUNSELOR: Now at one point did you have this experience? You said...
PATIENT: It was my last year in college. We have to do thesis in undergrad. Like an undergraduate thesis. So it was,
it was hard. It was really bad. But it was. Then I was stronger. I was like-if I-and then, it was always 3 am on a
Thursday night or a Friday night. They would just call, "We have a patient, somewhere in the city. You have - if you
want your samples, you have to come and grab it. And wait for the whole surgery."
COUNSELOR: Where you present for all that? Or...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You were there for the surgeries?
PATIENT: Yeah. I always-I've always believed in donating organs. So I'm - I have in my license 'Donate your
organs and tissues.' I don't think you will-I don't know. I think in some cultures. I was talking to a Chinese friend.
And they don't-they think that you need all your organs and everything for after you die. I always-I've always said,
even before the work. I always said in my-if something can happen - anyone else. Like a kid, heart. Well, what Kidneys, heart. You know just-I'm not going to take these anywhere. I'm not bringing. Well, to the worms in the
ground. [0:44:29.5]
So in the surgeries. They are-I thought they were worse. They actually are tons of people trying to rescue a kidney
or trying to rescue-because you know there's someone in another hospital that needs it. So the surgeries were-they
were - the worst part I had to do. Which was opening them up and grabbing the-even the doctors were like, "Ewe,
how can you do that." It was so good. But oh well. What I really never liked was the autopsies. It was like being in a
butt-cher (ph)-how do you say that?
COUNSELOR: Butcher.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094426

11/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Like that. So.
COUNSELOR: Well it's a very interesting experience that you had. [0:45:21.4]
PATIENT: Yes. I think it's-you really appreciate life. And you start looking at life like I'm here to enjoy this. To do
whatever I want. There's... yeah.
COUNSELOR: How did that impact you during that time of your life? That experience.
PATIENT: I think it was like-the ﬁrst time I went there, so I've never seen anyone dead. Not even in my family. We
don't do the openCOUNSELOR: Caskets.
PATIENT: Caskets in the funerals. I'd never seen anyone dead. So I had to go there by myself. Which is in the
downtown-right downtown, right next to the worst places. Where-there's a street - there was, because they're trying
to eradicate it. A street in Lisbon which is full of - but full, where all the drugs are, and all the homeless people go.
Drug addicts. People say if you walk down the street, you'll never make it to the other end. I don't think anyone here
in the United States can imagine how bad it is. You don't want to. You don't-it's like-let's say two blocks of hundreds
and hundreds of homeless drug addicts.
(audio gap)
PATIENT: For eight autopsies at the same time. And it's like-and it smells awful. And then all types of people were
dead on those tables. And I was the only helper. I was by myself. No one was there. So the technicians that helped
doing all the autopsies. Because there are so many-you cannot have a doctor doing-all the doctors. Because there are
so many dead in this place.
And there were all types of people. An old lady, an old guy, a kid, a homeless person, a rich per-anyone that dies in
an accident, whatever. So it doesn't matter who you are or where you come from. You will end up on that table. And
they will treat you the same way. And the technicians and the doctors were really nice. They were like "Oh! You
should come and see this. It is really interesting." So they were showing me the stuff. And I was like, "Am I sure
what I'm looking?
COUNSELOR: (laughs) [0:47:38.9]
PATIENT: So it's like, "Look at - ." So you appreciate that they treat you so well because they're going to have to do
it this for me. You know, like I asked them favor. And they're like, "Oh, you should see this! Look at the size of this
liver." Or "Look the bullet in the brain." And you're like "What?" So after that I was like-I couldn't eat for meals.
COUNSELOR: I was going to ask if it affected your lifestyle or just your [lack of sleep] (ph) and then, you know...
PATIENT: And then they do-when they open the cape-the rib cage, I don't know how to-yeah. So it looks like the
ribs you eat in a restaurant. And I was like, "I will never eat ribs again." So it's like-"Oh my God." Yeah. But it's
good because you realize-doesn't matter who you are or who you think you are. It's like-life is just one. You have to
enjoy it. Do whatever you want. Because you can die tomorrow.
COUNSELOR: Are there things that, with that realization that life is what you make it, you have to enjoy it, you
have to, you know. Did you do things differently or go about doing things differently?
PATIENT: Yeah, I think I did. Yeah, I think I did. I really started focusing on what I wanted to do. Stop trying-I
don't know. Sometimes you always compare yourself with other people-"Oh well, this person got this." "He or she
had this." I think after that, I was-I'm so lucky that I have this life. A home and food. I don't-I'm not on the table
today. Or I'm not the family. So this is the place where everyone goes-how do you say that, John Doe? Is that how
you guys COUNSELOR: Yeah, John Doe. [0:49:29.2]
PATIENT: How you guys call it here? In Col-so all the people, all the families go there and ask for the missing. And
then suddenly realize your-whatever - person can be there. So one day I woke up. I had to go there 6 am and my
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094426

12/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

brother didn't show up for the whole day. So my mom was crying. And then she tells me, "See if your brother is
there." And I'm like, "What?" I'm not going to. So I was like, I'm not going to get into that room without asking
before. So I went to the lady who - where the people go and ask. So it's like, "Don't tell me you have someone this
description, this age." And she's like, "No, we don't." It's like, okay, so I can get in.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And my brother showed up in the afternoon that day.
COUNSELOR: That must have been a difﬁcult feeling, just...
PATIENT: That was bad. I-no-I mean, I was concerned. But I knew that I had to ask ﬁrst. And that I couldn't put a
lot of crap in my head before the actual thing. But that was hard. My mom was like, "now that you're going there.
You should ask if your brother is there. If he's-I don't know where he is for like..." He was partying for two days.
But yeah. That was hard. That was. And also I learned not to drink and drive.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay. [0:51:03.6]
PATIENT: It's like, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay, Marta, we have to go ahead and end.
PATIENT: Yeah, I have to go. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Next week is Thanksgiving. So we'll be closed Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. Not sure if you
wanted to come Monday or Tuesday of next week?
PATIENT: Yeah. Tuesday?
COUNSELOR: That's good for you?
PATIENT: Or Monday after - I have a lunch with a speaker in the college pharmacy until one.
COUNSELOR: Okay, until one? Let's say 3:00?
PATIENT: Yeah. If for any reason my boss tries to schedule any meeting with the speaker, can I call you so we can
see if like...?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Have the meeting later that day, or something like that?
COUNSELOR: That may work.
PATIENT: Because sometimes my boss is like that. He's very Portuguese in that sense.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Oh that's something we have to talk about (ph) - my boss.
COUNSELOR: [What is it?] (ph) Your boss? Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah, he's just too many lately.
COUNSELOR: Okay we'll deﬁnitely have to talk about that.
PATIENT: So on Monday afternoon, I'll tell you about something. Bye.
COUNSELOR: (laughs) Okay Marta. Take care.
END TRANSCRIPT
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094426

13/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

back to top
Copyright © 2008 by Alexander Street Press, LLC • About | Help | Terms of Use

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094426

14/14

