8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Home
Browse
Browse All Works
Browse Client Narratives
Browse Reference
Browse Session Transcripts
Browse Subjects
Browse Symptoms
Browse Therapies
Search
Help
All Works  »  Full Text

  

GO

Search:

Full Text
Session 2: Client discusses her relationship with her boyfriend and tells therapist about her abusive childhood with
her parents and step-parents, in Client 402: Unmarried female heterosexual patient, aged 21-30 years manifests low
self esteem, feelings of inadequacy, poor body image, unresolved childhood traumas, and repetitive relationship
dynamics, (2006), pp. 1-33
 show metadata

« Previous   

Session 2: Client discusses her relationship with her boyfriend and tells therapist about her abusive childhoo...

   Next »

TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Think about though the layoffs or the possibility of layoffs. What would make you think that you
may be a target of that?
PATIENT: I don't really know. I've always been kind of just like - I'm always just really scared of - I don't really
have like a lot of, in my family there's not really a lot of people that would help me if something like that was to
happen. So I think that just kind of like fuels this like fear in me with like employment in general. It's just kind of
like, 'Well what if there is a cutback or what if somebody buys us out or...' Just kind of like, I just want to be okay if
that happened.
COUNSELOR: All right.
PATIENT: I don't - I don't really think it's performance related, but some of the other people that were let go, I don't
really think that was performance related either. I think that was just more like the need to cut back.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: So, it's just more of I don't really have help if it did happen.
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

1/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Okay. Okay. So it's not, I remember you talked last week about the insecurity issues and feeling as
though you didn't bring a lot to the table in relationships, and a question that came to me afterwards was...ﬁrst of all,
what did you mean by that? Like does that carry over into your work as well? Do you second guess yourself at work
or how well are you doing?
PATIENT: Sometimes, but that's usually - that's just usually due to more - at work it's just more based on what's
going on within the environment there. So I do ﬁnd that I do - I don't really know what I'm - I don't really - I ﬁnd
that I sometimes don't know, really know how well I'm doing unless somebody else tells me.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: So it's...
COUNSELOR: What do you mean by that?
PATIENT: I guess I would need like input from my boss or something like that to let me know where I am.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Because I just don't assume that I fully - I guess I just don't assume that I'm doing well.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Now is there like an evaluation process that you guys go through quarterly or?
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes'] We're really small, so it's kind of a - it's just kind of like, we usually work together to
decide how we're going to evaluate ourselves. So, yeah, we have one probably every six months or so, but it's kind
of a new thing.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: So we do, we do a review and we have goals and we have things like that.
COUNSELOR: Do you guys have meetings where your supervisor gives you feedback or you know?
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes'] Usually like a one-on-one meeting.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And then how is that [been like typical] (ph) for you?
PATIENT: Generally it's good. It's generally good. I think because I've only been there a year and a half and I'm
kind of like a newer editor from the other ones, he will tend to ﬁnd like little things, like nitpicker things, but I think
that's maybe because he doesn't want me to leave a meeting thinking that I don't have any room for improvement.
[0:03:00.2]
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: So.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I guess I do just kind of have a general insecurity about - but I think that's just - I don't necessarily think
my job insecurity is about how I feel about myself.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I feel like that's just more like in the issues of the economy today. I kind of like, I ﬁnd that a lot of people
I talk to just tend feel that way.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Like that your job is just not a guarantee anymore.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

2/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Even if you're doing well.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And so when you talk about the layoffs, what types of layoffs have been done or you know?
PATIENT: Just kind of terminating, because it shows in I'm like taking that person's workload and just spreading it
to the remaining people.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: So, just kind of, just not having - I don't really - nobody has really told us why they would do those
things, it just was told here, it was told that positions were eliminated. They were people I worked closely with and I
never really saw any errors in their work...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...or they had really positive feedback from their authors that they were working with, like their authors
really like working with them. And so that's kind of just like we get a little [life world map] (ph) - it's like me and I
haven't really had mistakes and I'm like, 'Okay, this is just economical, where they can't afford to pay this person.'
Then I think also, because I'm one of the newer people that I would be probably one of the ones that would - I mean
there's, right now it seems - it just, you just don't know, and that's why I don't have a very - I don't really have much
savings and that's why I'm kind of like...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...like I should've tried to get a little bit. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: Does that at all add to your stress or stress that you feel (ph)?
PATIENT: Sometimes. And sometimes when I have like - like the idea of my car and it not functioning really
stresses me out. I mean you know...
COUNSELOR: Well sure, sure.
PATIENT: ...anytime I have to take on like an additional, like larger expenses as to what I'm already budgeted for,
yeah.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Sure. So you don't have help, you don't have somebody or something you can enjoy, type of
situation like where...someone who can help you?
PATIENT: No, not really.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And I think, well my parents don't really - my parents are both remarried, but I don't - they don't either like they don't really have savings and I think that's another thing, too, is I don't want to be that old and not have like
a security for myself.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: So they're not really like reliable. I mean I couldn't rely on them and I wouldn't want to.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: But...
COUNSELOR: Okay. So it is a test back to being to...be in a situation where it's not a guarantee. And you see
people around you may have been there longer than you or may do good work and still let go, 'What does that mean
for me?'
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

3/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: (chuckling) You know and, 'My position is now...' Like it's over your head or in the back of your
mind and...how does that affect your work or...anxiety and...
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So that would deﬁnitely, like if I'm thinking...even like those folks who work in the
automotive industry...
PATIENT: Oh, I know.
COUNSELOR: ...now, you know.
PATIENT: It's sad.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So connecting with your challenge, an anxiety came up now?
PATIENT: [inaudible nonverbal response at 0:06:08.0]...
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So...I have a feeling that - I have a feeling for you and...like hope that...you can get some
clear indication of, this is where the company is headed, so that...you can know how to best prepare for it and...
PATIENT: Right. Because you kind of want to know like when you're - if you want to buy a house or things like
that, you want to know, kind of want to feel like you can do those types of things and not be like left out in the cold
or whatever.
COUNSELOR: Sure. That could really be...
PATIENT: I mean because it really is these days, people cut - companies are cutting back and that's just, well many
good workers lose their jobs.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Is there anything else that you want to say on that issue?
PATIENT: No, not really.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay. Well one thing I noticed on last week is that we...you talked a little bit about Jerry and...
[inaudible at 0:07:13.6] ...and being such a good boyfriend, but I just want to ﬁnd out...hear you...talk a little bit
more about Jerry and what he means to you and what the relationship means to you?
PATIENT: Well I had the one boyfriend for, like...
COUNSELOR: Matt?
PATIENT: ...Matt for a long time and I feel like, well I like feel much closer to Jerry than I ever did with Matt
though. He comes from like a very traditional family and I think that's like a good perspective for me, because I've
always been kind of like, kind of cynical about how I look at like a family unit. Sort of just like a lot - the ability for
people to be married and like have like a functional relationship, happy relationship, like long-term. And I think
Jerry, coming from like a similar background to mine where that wasn't really a reality, is like I think he kind of had
a - I think if you have like two negative people, people who don't view that type of, that aspect of life in the most
positive of light that it's just like, I don't think it could ever really work out, because one of you just seems like,
'Well it's not going to work out anyway.' Or something like that. But with him, he is - his parents are like really
happily married and his brother's really happily married and they just had like a really nice upbringing and he just
seems to have a - he's just the type of person where he's dated a lot of people, but he would quickly realize after a
few months that it was just - if there was not - like he wants to be, have a - he wants to be married and he wants that
life, and he would quickly realize if like there were things that weren't, that wouldn't to work out, then what's the
point of being in that relationship? And I've never really, he's like the ﬁrst person I've ever met where I'm like,
"Wow. Maybe, you know, maybe people do get married and they're happy and maybe, you know...'
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: '...maybe that does exist and maybe that could work out.' So it's kind of nice. Like it's, he's a really good
inﬂuence along those lines and now he's deﬁnitely picked up on some of my cynicisms and I try not to look at it that
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

4/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

way anymore. [0:09:12.0]
COUNSELOR: How has he responded to your cynicism?
PATIENT: He, well he seems to understand. I was always kind of scared to talk about it initially, because I didn't
really think he would understand it and I didn't want to scare him off. But now that he just like knows me better and
he understands like my feeling dynamic and like my relationship with my family, he seems to understand it like a lot
more now I think.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Like his like positive attitude about it is like wearing off on me, so that's good.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: That's really good.
COUNSELOR: What is his attitude about it?
PATIENT: He just thinks...relationships take work and you can be in love with somebody and be happily married,
and you just have to - and his parents don't really - you just kind of like have to choose your battles and just - he
thinks it's all like on an individual basis. He doesn't really let - like I tend to look at like long-term friends of mine,
who like break up. I get like - I like, well I'll look at that and I'll be like, 'Oh, man, like that sucks. There's another
one.' Then I'll like kind of like get a little bit worried about my situation.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: But he's really good at looking at things as like an individual.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Like, 'Well that doesn't like...'
COUNSELOR: You mean, that's not going to happen?
PATIENT: Yeah. He just doesn't let like outside circumstances like apply to his life, which is like really kind of neat
because I don't really know many people like that, so.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: So he like will look at his parents and he has, he just has like a lot of happily married people in his
family, and everybody in my family is divorced. So it's kind of like - yeah, he just looks at it as two individuals and,
which is nice, because I just kind of look at it as like an across the board type of thing, like I look at it more
statistically.
COUNSELOR: Sure. And especially if that's been your experience with everyone that - I mean what you've known
and what you've seen...if everybody is divorced or had relationship problems, then that...shapes your world...in a
sense...
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
COUNSELOR: ...and so it would be understandable...
PATIENT: I know.
COUNSELOR: ...where the cynicism comes from, you know. And him on the other hand, seeing, like being able to
experience and witness, and him seeing messages that relationships can work and people can be happy, and all it
takes is work and effort, these sorts of things, and that, I would understand why he has that world view to take it...on
an individual case by individual case. And...how do you all work that out, having...two different world views on
relationships?
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

5/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
COUNSELOR: You know, it seems like that would be, it could be a challenge...in your relationship or it can be an
opportunity to...become closer because you have to learn about each other's world and where you come from, you
know.
PATIENT: We've got a lot of, well divorce, but like inﬁdelity... [0:12:12.8]
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...on top of that.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And I was always like - I knew. I was like a really aware kid, almost kind of like a detective. And I was
like very aware when I was like nine, ten, that my parents were like having affairs and that my mom was like with a
married man and my dad was now with a woman, who is my stepmom now, who was like, just like my mom. My
parents had this like land in Hershey and they sold it to this woman, my stepmom, and my dad built her house, this
woman's house...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And now they're married.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And...and my mom is now married to this man who was married when they were together.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And like, like my grandpa had an affair on his wife when she was like dying of cancer, and like, just like
lots and lots of just like betrayal. And then Matt, the reason why we broke up was because he cheated on me. So I
think like a lot of times, for some reason I think I tend to - like when Jerry and I ﬁrst started going out, like he's like
in a band and he's always going to be touring and playing these shows and I would always - initially I was like, 'I
don't know if I can handle someone whose like in the public eye with lots of other woman like looking at them.'
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: Because I'm thinking, 'Well what do I have compared to like them?'
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And then that just like left me like feeling vulnerable. Like...
COUNSELOR: Sure. Sure.
PATIENT: 'Wow. Like anybody could just come up and like take this person away from me because, well what am I
offering them?' And them I'm like, 'This is so unhealthy. Like this is going to ruin your relationship.' So I think that's
like a lot of the reason why I was like - I've always wanted to like talk to somebody but this was - I think this is kind
of like mostly the driving force, was like...
COUNSELOR: Yeah? What's the driving force?
PATIENT: Just I'm really just seeing how I feel about myself, and this like really like puts a wedge between myself
and other people and how - and I really, I'm just like really sick of feeling like that. I'm really sick of just like not
looking at myself so positively. I don't - just I don't understand why.
COUNSELOR: Sure. What, how is that wedge - because if you're saying that you felt this way, I remember you
saying that, 'as a little girl and growing up' and these sorts of things, how has that wedge been presented in your
relationship currently with Jerry?
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

6/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: In mostly just things I won't tell him. Like thoughts I've had or like just going to my girlfriend's, like kind
of just asking them stupid things like, "Do you think I am like pretty enough for him?" Or, "Am I..." You know what
I mean? Like just dumb, stupid questions that are just like, Andrea like. And then I tell myself, 'You're smarter than
this. Why are you letting such superﬁcial, stupid things hold you back?'
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: And I think it almost like drives my friends crazy.
COUNSELOR: How so Emma?
PATIENT: Because I think they don't look at me like that and they just get so frustrated with me. And I remember
being younger and like always comparing myself to like certain girls on my soccer team. And like my family will
like make fun of me now. They're like, "Remember when you were like just always comparing yourself to like
Teresa Calvin or Jennifer Slavin? You just always felt - remember you just like always worried about that?" And I'm
like, "Yeah, I remember that." And like things really haven't changed, you know? [0:15:22.2]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I've just always just like looked at, compared myself to other people and just have always just never
really felt like I like - I don't know. I've just always felt inferior. And I, like I just - I don't know. And when
somebody like is constantly telling you that they love you and that they think you're like, you're beautiful and you're
wonderful, and you just - and it's like in one ear and out the other, you know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, because if you don't believe it yourself...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...it doesn't matter how many times folks tell you that or how...or how many people say it to you,
it's...
PATIENT: I know.
COUNSELOR: All right. Has Jerry picked up on any of the insecurities or feelings of inferiority?
PATIENT: I think he will like, like in subtle ways. I'm still kind of like not really ready to tell him that kind of stuff.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I don't really know if he would - I don't know if he would like be scared about it or not.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: You know, because I'm kind of like...
COUNSELOR: Does it come through in your actions? Where like if you think of these things sometimes, they'll
like come through in how you interact with him or?
PATIENT: I think so. I think so. Like when he gives me compliments, I don't really never, ever really know what to
say or, I think he thinks I blow them off a lot...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...which I'm not trying to do. Well, I don't.
COUNSELOR: How does he respond when you - like give me like an example of how you may have blown a
compliment off and how he would respond?
PATIENT: Like one time we were on... [inaudible at 0:17:10.7] ...and Ted was like, "Wow, you really - you look
really beautiful today." And Jerry like, "I tell her that all the time and she just doesn't like listen to me and she
doesn't believe me." Then I stop, it's like, I think he's gradually seeing it. I think it's just a gradual thing as he's
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

7/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

getting to know me because I'm so easily depressed. But there hasn't been a conversation about it or anything like
that. So anytime I - he will say things just like, "Well, you know, we all have bad days." And, "We all have days
where we don't feel so great about ourselves and we don't feel attractive all the time and so..." And he maybe does
and just doesn't...he probably does. He's a pretty astute person.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Yeah. How's that, really not really knowing what to say when he gives you a compliment? Is
there any other way that it can re-manifest itself? [0:18:16.0]
PATIENT: Sometimes I - I don't know if it's because I like interact with people all day long, like sometimes I just
don't really want to interact with people. And sometimes he seems to like - one time we were going to go out with
friends and I just didn't really want to. And it was kind of like a long work week and I hadn't really wanted to hang
out - I didn't really want to hang out with anybody that week. And it just seemed to strike him as strange that - it
seemed to worry him that I would - like I had antisocial behavior or something. And I was kind of like...
COUNSELOR: What did he say to you or how did he approach you?
PATIENT: He was just kind of like, he's like, "Now I'm worried." And I was just like, "Why are you worried?" He's
like, "Well because you haven't really wanted to hang out with anybody this week." I'm like, "This is just a week
I..." I am like, "I don't - I work very closely with people all day. I'm constantly interacting with people. And
sometimes I just - sometimes I don't want to interact with anybody." And he just, that seemed to strike him as really
weird.
COUNSELOR: And I mean you explained that to him and?
PATIENT: He seemed to understand it after that. But I think to him that might have been something, some sort of
insecurity in me manifesting or some like strange like behavior that I was just now exhibiting and so.
COUNSELOR: And when did that happen?
PATIENT: That was like, probably like a couple, like really three months ago or something like that.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And so.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Has anything else like that come up?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Unusual (ph)?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Okay. Do you ﬁnd yourself putting yourself down around him at all or do you still keep that,
because you said...
PATIENT: I keep that in.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I don't really talk like a lot with, like openly about that type of thing.
COUNSELOR: So you present as though everything is okay and you feel comfortable in your own skin?
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
COUNSELOR: You're still presenting that way, but on the inside?
PATIENT: Yeah.

ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

8/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: That's what it sounds like you're doing. Okay. Does this come through, you talk about friendships
and I'm wondering, how does the insecurity present itself in your other relationships? Like your friendships and
your family relationships, does it impact those relationships?
PATIENT: I don't really - well with my friends, my friends have always been more like family. So they don't - my
friends, a lot of my friends I've been friends with from the seventh grade.
COUNSELOR: Okay. All right.
PATIENT: So, and most of them I'm really, really secure with. There's not that many but I've always thought quality
over quantity anyway and so with them I'm not really insecure. And I'm not insecure with my siblings. And my
parents, I just don't really like rely on them. I don't really like count on them. And I don't really - usually, honestly
what they say, sometimes it's just not as valued to me as what more of my friends or my siblings would say. But they
don't really make a lot of effort towards me in any way. [0:21:30.4]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So it's kind of like - I mean the last - I've lived in Trenton - well, since I was like a freshman in college,
that was like in '97, my dad and my stepmom have never been to a single place I've lived. And that's in...
COUNSELOR: They haven't come to visit you?
PATIENT: Never. They'll go months without talking to me.
COUNSELOR: What do you make of that?
PATIENT: I used to like get sad about it. And I go through different periods of being like really angry and like,
'Fine, I'm not going to call you then and then we're just not going to talk.' And then I'll go home after a couple of
months and I'll be like, 'Gosh. Well this makes me sad.' I'm like, 'Well why don't I talk to them more?' And then
they'll say things like, "Well, you know, Emma, we'd like to see you more but, you know, you don't live that far
away." And I'm like, "Exactly. Come to Willow Ridge. Come to wherever I've lived. You don't even know my
address. You've never seen a single place I've lived." So, and then my mom, she lives with my stepdad, who has - is
not a nice person, so I've never really gone to her place. I've - I will go there when he's not there, but I am only - I
was - I just had never felt like really like, like allowed there for like the last...ten years or so.
COUNSELOR: No? Why not? Why?
PATIENT: Well, I moved - I just - my stepdad is just, is like a very like unpleasant person, and all we kids have ever
wanted to do is just like get away from him.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: So...
COUNSELOR: And you said that Emma, like by what age?
PATIENT: I was probably like ten. So, yeah, I mean and he just is like a very like psychologically strange person,
and I mean that's why like my little brother moved in with my dad when he was probably eight, when he like
wanted to like hurt himself. And my, Dorothy, the oldest one, never moved out, and she just went to college. And
then when I came back from winter break my freshman year I moved in with my dad for the winter...when I would
come home once in a while I'd go to my dad's. And then my youngest, my second youngest sister, mom and dad had
four kids with my mom and my dad, she moved in with my dad when she was like 16.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So when you say 'unpleasant and psychologically...well unhealthy', like can you describe
your stepfather, give me some examples? I don't know if I understand what you mean by that? [0:23:56.4]
PATIENT: Dad's stuff was more like, just always - well, there was like always an inﬂux of other kids in the house,
like he had three sons and a daughter, who were always like, just like troubled with the law and like big - well they
had a really crazy upbringing, like my stepdad's married for the third time and he had three boys with his ﬁrst wife
and his daughter with his second wife. And those kids just, their parents, their childhood must have just been
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

9/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

horrible. I mean like my stepdad had like a really bad childhood and so he would things like - for some reason he
had it in his mind that like we four were like really spoiled. Which I don't understand where that comes from,
because I was - my parents didn't have any money to like do anything for us, so, and we all got like straight 'A's' and
like we were good kids. We didn't like never - we were scared of him, so we would never talk back to him. But he
would just do like really manipulative, like always trying to teach us lessons. Like I had a job. I babysat at least
since I was 14. But when I got a job as soon as I turned 15, so he would like - I would buy my shoes, but like if I
didn't untie my laces before I would take them off, I would like come home and he would've like taken each shoe
and like tied the knot - tied knots to like the end of the lace, like that takes a lot of time.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Or after soccer practice, if I didn't put my soccer ball away, like whenever I got home he would pop them
or hide them. Or he would, if I had taken too long a shower, he'd make me pay like the water bill or part of it.
COUNSELOR: And what age was that he was like that?
PATIENT: Like 15, 16.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Just like, if you ran down the stairs, you'd have to walk up and down them like 30 times. And he was
really big on having us do like - like we would probably do like two or three hours of chores every day and he
would like spy on us when we were doing them. He would spy on us when we were talking to our mom.
COUNSELOR: You said spy? What do you mean when you say spy?
PATIENT: He would like - you would look up occasionally and he'd be like staring at us like from - if we'd be in the
back yard like doing some sort of work, he would be like watching us from like the second ﬂoor window. And he
was like making Dave and Alan do that kind of stuff, and at the time, they were like seven and ten.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: They were really little. So like Dorothy and I were always trying to like keep them going so that they
wouldn't get in trouble.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: And we - it just was like a really cat (ph). I mean if you were home alone, like Dorothy would start - my
mom went to - was working.
COUNSELOR: Where did you mom work?
PATIENT: She worked for the Juvenile District Courts, which is where she met my stepdad, he's a cop.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: So, and my mom was actually like - my mom was like kind of abusive to his daughter, and so then - and
then he was like...
COUNSELOR: You say kind of abusive?
PATIENT: Like really like mean to her, just like totally mean to her, and I think she would hit her sometimes. And
then my stepdad, he didn't hit us. He would hit my brother. But just like I would think I was grounded at least a
month out of every - a week out of every month for things, like not putting the dishes away before I went to bed.
One time...
COUNSELOR: What did the grounding look like?
PATIENT: I just couldn't talk to my friends or do anything after work - or after school, except for work. I couldn't go
to any of my soccer practices. I couldn't go to any of my soccer games.
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

10/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Would he make comments to you always (ph)? [0:26:58.5]
PATIENT: He just would either not talk to you, either totally ignore me and then tell my mom, "Emma didn't say hi
to me." Or he would like yell at me. Tell me I was like a cocky little brat. Things like that, and I was just - I, which I
never understood, because I was just always too scared to say anything back...
COUNSELOR: Sure. Right.
PATIENT: ...because he would always threaten to like knock us on our butts or whatever and...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...so I mean, every day after school was just like miserable.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: But we would never like - my dad would always ask us to live with him but my mom, my mom - I think
Dave and Alan, since they were so little, they never really bonded with my mother.
COUNSELOR: How come?
PATIENT: Because the chaos was like so intense when they were being brought up that they were like - it just sort
of seemed like almost like brainwashing. Because Dorothy, I remember being really little and my mom saying
things, crying to us and saying things like, "One day you're just going to leave me. You're going to leave me and
then I'm going to have nothing." So Dorothy and I...
COUNSELOR: How old were you when you were hearing that, those things from your mother?
PATIENT: Oh, probably since I was like six, because I'm sure their - I'm sure their marriage was horrible then.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So, she just made Dorothy and I - Dorothy and I have always felt kind of responsible for her.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: And so we would get on...
COUNSELOR: And how did, if - did you - looking at your mom's situation, since what you described for me, how
responsible did you feel for some of the choices that she made or situations that she ended up being in?
PATIENT: Well, for a long time I like couldn't eat (ph) with her, because she was letting this guy like move into our
house who would just like be mean to us. And then like they were like teenagers. They would just like go out and
get drunk and like leave us home alone. And sometimes leave us home alone with his older kids, who were just like
rotten and mean. And like, to me being an adult, I'm thinking, 'How could you leave your three young daughters and
your young son with these older boys in this house? Like how could you do that? Like you don't know what could
happen.' That's just like - I just look at her and I'm thinking - I, if I look at it - when I was at that age, I hated her and
I kind even hid (ph) her. I didn't talk to her for periods of time in college.
COUNSELOR: And this is at what age you hated her?
PATIENT: Oh, (making noise) I remember being - I remember - I can consciously remember being ten, and Tim and
his wife, at the time, were sleeping on our foldout couch downstairs. And this is when my mom is dating him, and
they're spending the night at our house, the married couple.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And I remember being ten and being like, 'This is totally messed up.'
COUNSELOR: Okay.
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

11/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: And another time, I remember like a couple of weeks later, I remember - and I almost think my stepdad
did this on purpose, too. I remember I would hear them having sex like all the time. And I remember when at ﬁrst and it would drive me crazy. I wouldn't sleep. It would drive me nuts. And when he was still married to her, I
remember like I just went crazy. I was like, I started kicking the walls with my feet, because I wanted them to stop.
And my mom like came downstairs and was yelling at me. And I'm like, "Mom, he's married."
COUNSELOR: What did she say to you? [0:29:54.7]
PATIENT: "Stop it. What are you doing? What are you doing?" Like, "Control yourself." And I'm like, "Mom,
you're sleeping..." I'm like, "I can hear you having sex with a married man." And I called her a slut, (chuckling) and
she slapped me in the face. And then - yeah, it just was like, 'Four kids sleeping in your house and you're like having
wild sex with a married man.' Like and I know my siblings could hear it.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: They don't admit it, but I know that they did. But I just was so like - this was wrong, and I like had to
know everything about it. I had to know like - I just was like obsessed on this.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean?
PATIENT: I just wanted to know like every detail of what was going on in the house. And I wanted to like - like I
would ﬁnd all of just mom's boyfriend's porn...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...in there. I would like spy on them.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Not like when they were having sex...
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: ...but when they were not in the room. I just had to know like everything. I - for some odd reason I was
just like, so disgusted by everything. [audio blip at 0:30:50.7 to 0:30:57.1] And so, and I remember, I was the one
who told my dad. I was like, "I think Dave wants to hurt himself." So that's when they got like the child
psychologist involved and - because Tim was physically abusive to my brother sometimes, but extremely,
extremely, emotionally abusive to him. And then he was dealing with a situation where his mother was not
protecting him at all.
COUNSELOR: Do you at all, because you had a stake in all this?
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
COUNSELOR: Okay. So I'm just putting things together, trying to, trying to understand how this goes here. A
couple of things you said, okay. Knowing that you were the second oldest, what you just said about your mom
putting messages in your head to make you and Dorothy feel responsible for her. Last week you mentioned her
always threatening to commit suicide around you guys. And then your brother here...he ends up having some issues
and tries to hurt himself. Did you ever go through a period where you blamed yourself for your mom's
circumstances or your brother's circumstances or feel as though you didn't do enough to prevent that?
PATIENT: I think it's kind of funny because I don't.
COUNSELOR: Or like...
PATIENT: I just more felt bad for her that she was just so miserable....
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...and just was never, she's never been a happier person, ever. I don't recall her ever being that way.
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

12/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And I just always remember just feeling bad for her. Like, 'Mom's crying again. Why is mom crying?'
COUNSELOR: Okay. Did you ever feel like you could do - like you wish you could've done something to help ease
her pain or to make her happier or?
PATIENT: And that's why I like didn't move in with my dad, because I felt like she needed me to stay there with her
and like make it okay for her. And Dorothy and I would always gather up the little money we had up and like get my
mom presents for Valentine's. I mean Dorothy and I would just always - it seemed like we really needed to show her
love by like just giving her things or something. It seemed like that was how she gave us love, was just like trying to
like give us stuff. [0:33:12.5]
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: So I think we would just try to like make her feel special and things like that.
COUNSELOR: Did you feel like you succeeded with that?
PATIENT: No. Because - no, I don't feel like we did.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: Just in our like younger minds' that's how we could show her.
COUNSELOR: Sure, deﬁnitely.
PATIENT: So, but, no. Because now, it's like now that she's an adult, like for a while there it seemed like she just
wasn't ever acknowledging what she did. And like what she did was wrong, in like letting this man do these things,
and just - and now I like, now she sees what she did and it's like...like tears her up, and like feel bad that now she
knows in a way. Because my brother barely ever talks to her, and my younger sister barely ever talks to her, and
Dorothy and I aren't close with her. She doesn't like have anybody. She has like my stepdad, and then his kids don't
talk to him. And then she has her sister and her sister barely talks to her. And she doesn't really have anybody
anymore. And I know she's done it to herself, but it still makes me sad for her. I've always...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, sure.
PATIENT: I - the bottom line with my mom has always been like a combination of like anger and then guilt.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Like what do you mean by that?
PATIENT: I would get really mad at her and I would like explode at her, and then I would feel guilty. Or I would get
mad at her in my own mind and not react any way, just be angry with her without her knowing it, and then at the end
of the day just feel bad for her. I've just always felt bad for her.
COUNSELOR: When you say guilt, can you describe a little bit more about what that looks like to you and felt
like?
PATIENT: Like just making her feel bad, because I feel like she's always feeling bad. Like and I would feel like I
would have a right to be angry with her sometimes, but just like it - to ever take it out on her just never was worth it
in the end, because then she would feel bad. And I'm like, 'Great. I'm just going to have a thing making my mother
sad.' And then I would go...
COUNSELOR: So you'd feel like you were responsible for her...
PATIENT: Yeah, kind of.
COUNSELOR: ...sadness or?
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

13/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Okay. [silence from 0:35:07.5 to 0:35:18.8] This may be a random question. What I'm just
wondering Emma, when you are telling yourself - Are you okay?
PATIENT: Yeah. I'm sorry. (emotional)
COUNSELOR: Oh, no! What's going - what's coming up for you?
PATIENT: I don't know. (crying) Maybe just talking about it.
COUNSELOR: Share with me. What's, what's cooking (ph)?
PATIENT: (more emotional) I don't know. I just don't cry very often and...
COUNSELOR: I remember you saying that before.
PATIENT: Sometimes I just think - I don't - I honestly don't even know why. I just feel like, emotional. It's nothing
like particularly triggering it. I just feel like some sort of upheaval.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: You know? [silence from 0:36:02.5 to 0:36:11.9] (big sigh)
COUNSELOR: When did you begin feeling this? At what point during this session or? [0:36:17.6]
PATIENT: Within like the last few minutes.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So the last few minutes we were talking about a relationship with mom, the anger, the guilt.
And I'm just - is it anything about that do you think that's triggering...
PATIENT: Probably. I mean...
COUNSELOR: ...the emotions or what - what do you think this is about?
PATIENT: [silence from 0:36:37.9 to 0:36:46.4] I guess it's hard to feel like - it's hard for me to feel like I am the
only thing my mom has and it just makes me sad to know somebody's so sad all the time and - I don't know. But at
the same time like I don't have a very - I don't have like a mom in like the normal sense that you'd think that you
have one. I think a lot of people - I think a lot of the stronger people I know or the people who seem to be, seem to
be that way, have like a strong like parental relationship.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: And I have never really felt like I have had that type of like unconditional love in my life.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And like...so, I don't know. I think maybe that makes me insecure. I don't - I kind of feel like my parents
don't really express that to me. And so then like they're my parents...
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: So I think that really kind of does spill over into my insecurities about other relationships in my life, like,
you know...
COUNSELOR: Because if you're not getting that from the relationships that "you should be getting it from", you
know, how can you experience that in other relationships? You know or if you don't hear those type of messages, I
mean, the positive, the afﬁrmations, the nurturing, the love, that you describe, how do you get that from other
relationships?
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes'] I don't really - and it's like when somebody offers it to me, I don't know how to accept
it.
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

14/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Well, sure. And this is very, I think, awesome that you can make that connection. If that's not
something that you were used to, what do you do when somebody gives that to you, you know? When you talk
about the compliments or things like that...if you weren't, growing up, you said, hearing those afﬁrmations and
things. And now when people...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...share those with you, how do you accept that?
PATIENT: And then it's kind of like also, like I don't really know if I want to get used to that...like I kind of like...
COUNSELOR: You don't want to get used to it?
PATIENT: It's just kind of scary to feel like you're ﬁnding yourself...likeable and the whole situation where...
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: ...if you get comfortable with this, like...
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: ...it just seems like there's so many other things like, or just like suddenly they take out of you.
COUNSELOR: And again, it sounds like you're making something, a chance to - when you talk about that world
view of what your upbringing was like, how something, things always liked to come up and take that away, whether
it was inﬁdelity or divorce or...whatever the case is, it seemed like that type thinking you've taken away, and so why
put yourself in a vulnerable situation where that can happen? [0:39:28.1]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Things may seem like they're going okay, but that's always...in the back of your mind.
PATIENT: [inaudible at 0:39:33.0]
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And that helps me understand even maybe the insecurity that you're experiencing on your job.
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Things are going well maybe, but then it's like in the back of your mind...
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: ...it may not be that way forever (ph)?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So, that's a lot of - I want to go back to something that you said Emma. It seems like it's a lot
of pressure for a child to feel like they're responsible for the adult. And you're - because you talk about, you don't
like - when you started tearing up, you were saying how you didn't like feeling as though you were the only thing
that you, that your mom had, right?
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
COUNSELOR: That's a lot of pressure on a child, do you think? [nonverbal 'yes'?]
PATIENT: Probably, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Well what was that like for you growing up?
PATIENT: Well, having two younger siblings, kind of they are too, because I was like trying to like be responsible
for them, because we were all totally alone a lot. So when I think, my older sister started babysitting us when she
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

15/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

was like 12.
COUNSELOR: [nonverbal 'yes'?]
PATIENT: So it was like her and then me and the two little ones, I mean, we'd always have like long lists of chores
to do. So it was kind of like, I would be more like keeping, trying to keep the other two, these little, little kids, on
task to do all this work that...
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: ...our parents expected us to do. And I would be kind of like mean to them, and like so anxious and
worried that we were all going to get in trouble for not doing these things. But I was like mean to them and kind of
like bullying them, trying to get them to do this work and they were just too little to do it.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: And then Dorothy was like trying to like regulate me, trying to keep me from being mean to them, and
she just was always like ﬁghting.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: And then like my stepdad would come home and we were in trouble all the time. And like - and then like
- and then my mom would sometimes try to defend us and ﬁght with my stepdad. And then he would make her cry,
and then we would try to consol my mom then. So it was kind of like - I don't know. It just was always like - trying
to like - trying to like protect the two younger ones but also, like contributing to their stress without knowing it at
that age, and then trying to like keep my mom happy. But my mom was like, kind of like a hateful person, just like
with hate on my dad, and like just was always like, just like back and forth, like - and it just - there's just like so
much to it, you know?
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: There's like just so many layers of it. My parents hate each other. They won't - they won't be in - they
have never even been in the same room with each other.
COUNSELOR: Let me ask you this. When you say hate, what does that look like? What does that mean to you?
[0:42:25.0]
PATIENT: Like if one of them were to die, I would think the other one would be happy about it. (snifﬁng)
COUNSELOR: Okay. All right. When you say hate, that you remember at the ages, even at age ten, when she was
sleeping with a married man, and this was a thing that you hated her for, what did that look like for you that time?
PATIENT: I just didn't respect her at all. I just had no respect for her at all.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And what she said to me just was like, it didn't mean anything because I just didn't respect her. And I
couldn't really stand her because I just thought everything she did - I just thought a lot of the things she did, morally
was wrong, all the time. I just remember being that young and thinking, 'How can you be a parent and do this to
your kids? Like how can you...'
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Just, 'Why aren't you protecting us?' And that's pretty much...
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: ...what I always wondered.. .
COUNSELOR: Sure.
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

16/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: ...is, 'Why aren't you protecting me? And why aren't you protecting my little siblings? And why do I have
to protect them now?' And like to this day, like I am like really protective of the younger two. And I am the one
checking up on them...I'm the one trying to like encourage them to do things or they're the one - they totally stay
with me instead of staying with my parents.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I mean, you know what I mean? Like we just kind of have like a - and then I see isolation in their lives,
too.
COUNSELOR: How so?
PATIENT: Well they just, they're just - don't - they don't - my parents are like, "Why don't Dave and Alan call us?"
It's like, "Why would they call you?" You know? It's like, "Why would they call you? And you're not - I'm sorry but
you're not going to be the ﬁrst one they call. If they need help with something they're going to call Dorothy or I, and
that's just because we are the ones who are there for them."
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: "You two are off like being teenagers in love and like, you know, with your new partners, and taking
vacations and..." You know what I mean? Just and, "You were busy with your own lives and you weren't having
kids, I mean, you weren't paying attention to your children."
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: So.
COUNSELOR: What was it that, your mom and dad didn't protect you from then?
PATIENT: Well my dad would try to protect us from our stepdad but, we just wouldn't leave her. My mom just
really didn't protect us from him.
COUNSELOR: Okay, I know.
PATIENT: And just - just like - I don't know. I just never - I thought, 'Why are we always getting shut off?' And like
when the water was on, like he was monitoring like how often we'd bathe, and we'd have to go bathe at our dad's
house. Just like weird things, like she just let this guy come in and just like totally take control of our life, and like
let him do whatever he wanted to us. And, like when I was young, my dad was like ﬁghting so hard to try to like
keep us safe, but now that I'm an adult, like he doesn't like do anything. It's weird. It's like, I almost feel like he feels
like he spent all of his energy on me when I was young, trying to like protect me, and now he just is like, it almost
feels like - I don't know what he thinks. He just doesn't seem to really care or... [0:45:27.4]
COUNSELOR: And this is your biological dad?
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Because now it's like now he doesn't do, really do anything. So. But he has said things like, he thinks that
Dorothy and I are my mom's and Dave and Alan and his.
COUNSELOR: He's said those things to you?
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
COUNSELOR: At what age did he tell you that?
PATIENT: Probably ﬁve years ago.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And how did that make you feel?
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

17/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: It just made me feel like, 'That makes sense because of the way you treat me.'
COUNSELOR: Okay. So do you know what, how that made you feel or what feelings came up for you? Has it
resonated with...it equaled to his response or his interactions with you, you know?
PATIENT: We don't talk when I'm - even when I'm around him, I mean, we don't really seem to have a lot to say to
each other. Like I like my dad, I love my dad. I think he's - I like adore my dad. But it's kind of like, I'm just getting
to a point in my life where it's kind of like, I can't be the one doing all the work all the time. 'And that you feel - are
you feeling - do you - I love you so much, but do you love me that much?'
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: 'Do you love me like as much as I love you?' I don't know. (getting emotional) And like I don't really
know what my parents feel. And it really, I think, affects me, to not - I mean, so that the fact that I can even doubt it
is weird. (crying) So. You know they tell me that they love me but, they don't show me that, really in any way. And I
always like, I feel I even have guilt with him, like I mean morbid thoughts. It's like he's getting older now. I worry
about like when my parents die, because it's like things have been so, in such upheaval, for like ever. And now, it
feels like it's almost like up to me to make our relationship work somehow, but if they're not doing anything to help
me, like how am I supposed to do it? And then...
COUNSELOR: And so that's a good question.
PATIENT: But when they pass away, I know it's going to be me feeling like, 'Wow. I didn't even like - like know my
parents very well or did they know I loved them?' (crying) I mean it's always like this. Why am I always wondering
if they know that I love them? It's like that's not really my...they're not doing anything to let me know that they love
me. But I'm always worried about, do they know how much I love them? And will they know that after they're
gone? Or - I don't know. (snifﬁng)
COUNSELOR: It sounds like the same situation you were in when you were a little girl?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Like that's again, 'Wondering if they love me?'
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
COUNSELOR: And, 'How much do they love me?'
PATIENT: But at the same time, it's so important that they know how much I love them.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: And if they don't know that, then I'm going to feel bad.
COUNSELOR: Then you feel bad, because something that you're doing...
PATIENT: I'm not doing to - I'm not showing them somehow by not showing up at their doorstep til the time I - you
know?
COUNSELOR: [nonverbal 'yes'] But again, this sounds like the - you've placed the responsibility on yourself. And
again, that sounds like a huge burden to have, to feel like the responsible one in the relationship. And then when
you're not, when that's not working, again, it's something, 'What am I doing wrong?' [0:48:37.0]
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
COUNSELOR: You know?
PATIENT: Yeah. I guess that...it really isn't that far from his place, but I mean, I'm the one working all the time. I
mean, my dad never works in the winter and he has - pretty well is off every year. But it's weird, they put like a lot
of - their kid together is like Bella. I see her and like she's so like extraverted and so conﬁdent, but she has like two
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

18/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

parents who are just, will do anything for her and like give her all the attention in the world she needs, and just like
are constantly like showering her with compliments...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...and love. And it's like, 'Wow. No wonder Bella's like ﬂourishing, and no wonder she's so, the way she
is.'
COUNSELOR: And do you think you haven't ﬂourished the way that Bella has ﬂourished?
PATIENT: Yeah, deﬁnitely.
COUNSELOR: And you contribute that to?
PATIENT: I just never - I don't think I've ever really felt - and like a feeling of feeling like loved, just
unconditionally. And I think if you were going to get that from anyone it would be your parents. I mean, just
logically. I mean, I know every family is different but, logically, to me, that would make sense. (snifﬁng) Or at least
by one of your parents, feeling that way about one of them, if not, you know...
COUNSELOR: Sure. What are you feeling now Emma, as you're talking about this with me? Can you go on over
that?
PATIENT: I just feel sad. (getting emotional)
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: That I'm like still dealing with this, the same issues that I feel like I've always dealt with. And it's like,
'When am I ever just going to wake up and feel like good about myself?' And I don't know! (snifﬁng) Sometimes it
just feels like it's never going to or it's just like a day-by-day thing. And I don't want to blame them for things but (snifﬁng - big sigh) I don't know.
COUNSELOR: It's understandable to feel sad, given what you've described to me today. You know, I like I've, in
listening to you...I'm feeling...the pain that it seems like you're experiencing as you're reﬂecting on this, and
reﬂecting on...your present relationship and how it is with your parents, verses how it was in your past. You know
that's - that's difﬁcult to sit with, you know? And, a part of this whole process I think...is about you talking about it,
you know? I mean you say how it's difﬁcult for you to cry, and I remember even last week you were telling me
about the condition where...you, there's a chance that you won't be able to cry and those sorts of things. And here in
this session today...you've shared tears on...two occasions.
PATIENT: You're right.
COUNSELOR: So, obviously, there's a lot there.
PATIENT: Yeah, I know.
COUNSELOR: And I don't think it's about - I don't - I wouldn't want you to get caught up on blaming your parents
and...
PATIENT: Sure. [0:51:33.7]
COUNSELOR: ...you know, feeling bad about blaming your parents. It's about trying to understand where your
insecurities really lie and recognizing your situation and how your upbringing and how your relationships or the
lack of, what was missing in your relationships, could be contributing to the insecurities and why you haven't
ﬂourished as you would have liked to. To feel like you - that you deserve to be told, 'I love you.' You deserved, as a
child, to be the child and be protected. You deserved to hear all the wonderful things and to have been given the
wonderful things that Bella or whoever else, whatever child, has. And it's unfortunate that you didn't get that. Okay?
So, just know that it's like now, (ph) okay?
PATIENT: Yeah (ph).

ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

19/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: But I think...for you to be as open as you are and to talk about these things, that says a lot for the
special person that you are. Okay? And I see why you have...a lot of good friends that you have. And...you seem
like a beautiful person Andrea, you really do. And I'm...just seeing that, just in our conversations, and one day we're
going to work on your seeing that in yourself. Because this is - it's all over, it really is. And it's great to see that
you've survived this, although sometimes it may not feel that way.
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
COUNSELOR: But for you to be able to sit here and tell me the story, it's amazing.
PATIENT: (snifﬁng) I know.
COUNSELOR: And it shows how resilient you are and the strengths that you have, although sometimes you always
don't see those strengths that you have. Just for you to be able to sit across from somebody and talk about it is a
huge strength, because a lot of folks can't do that.
PATIENT: Thank you. (snifﬁng)
COUNSELOR: Okay?
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
COUNSELOR: Now, so we have to stop here. We've gone over time. And like I wish I had...
PATIENT: Oh, I had no idea. I'm sorry.
COUNSELOR: No. No, no, you don't need to apologize, because it seemed difﬁcult to...I didn't want to stop you
with this process. I think this is helping and important.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And I apologize for...
PATIENT: No, that's okay. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: ...crying and all (both chuckling) these things, you know.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It's very... (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: So, yeah.
PATIENT: ...it does feel good to cry though, you know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It's deﬁnitely a release.
COUNSELOR: Good. Yeah, good. That's good. Good, good, good. Like I said, I'll talk with - how do you feel? I
mean it's just...
PATIENT: I feel good. Just like, really like crying is good.
COUNSELOR: Well good.
PATIENT: It is just, it is a relief, a release. That's why I can say, I feel like I've just like held in like a lot of stuff, just
like, and I mean just like modern (ph) things that have happened, like - just like - I don't know. You know, it's nice to
let it out a little bit. [0:54:38.5]
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

20/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Okay. Okay. Is there anybody you can talk to, over the weekend or...
PATIENT: I can talk to my sister.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I would suggest that you do that, just because it's - well, I mean a lot has come up today, and
I'm not sure how often you talk about these things...
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: ...but just the amount of emotion that had evoked in you, I would encourage you...
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: ...over the weekend, just to base with somebody or...I don't know.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Take care of yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because the session, especially because this is your ﬁrst experience with treatment, just to let you
know, some sessions are more difﬁcult than others...
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
COUNSELOR: ...and things may come up. You may feel a feeling that you haven't felt before. And as we're going
through this process, I want you to...ﬁnd somebody outside of this room, who you can just touch base with, but to
help take care of yourself.
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
COUNSELOR: Because you may experience things that you haven't before and that can be scary sometimes.
PATIENT: Is that normal?
COUNSELOR: It's very.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: And that's why I'm telling you.
PATIENT: (chuckling) Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And...and like I really should've explained that to you...
PATIENT: Because I'm like, 'Why am I crying so much?'
COUNSELOR: ...in the ﬁrst session. No! It's, you're getting in touch with things that before you may have had a
wall up, where you didn't - because you don't talk about this kind of stuff...
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'no']
COUNSELOR: ...over dinner or over...every, day-to-day. So you get in touch with, as your words were in the ﬁrst
session, 'deep-seated things' and memories you hadn't thought about before. And because you're talking about it then
you realize, 'Oh, that really did hurt me.' Whereas before you kind of had it in a box, you know?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: So that's what therapy is about and treatment, it does.
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

21/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: And so you always want to take care of yourself and let me know how this is going for you. And I
don't want to open up boxes that you're not ready to open yet.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: If anything feels uncomfortable, if this was too much emotion for you...we can communicate about
that, you know?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: If it's like, 'I can't handle this right now or this is too much or - I'm feeling this way and why am I
feeling this way?' You know, if that's okay.
PATIENT: Okay. This is...
COUNSELOR: And that's totally normal. (both chuckling)
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Totally normal. You're not weird Al or anything like that. This is what it's about.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: And that shows that you're doing some work.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: When you get in touch and you connect yourself, with your feelings as you're talking about things,
that shows that something is happening.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Okay?
PATIENT: Okay. It is now. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah. So...
PATIENT: Well, thank you. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: Would you like to come back next week?
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes']
COUNSELOR: Okay. See when you're messing with it sometimes you feel - you'll end up running away, like
disappearing. (patient chuckling) And...it's like, 'Hey, I don't want this. I don't want to do that anymore.' So rather
than that happening, just let me know...
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: ...that this is what's going on with you. Where if it was a positive experience or if it was like...so,
have a - I don't want you to disappear.
PATIENT: No, no, I wouldn't. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: (chuckling) Hey, but I think it's a - I don't think it's a negative thing.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Well, I'm not sure how you're experiencing with it.
PATIENT: No, I think it's good.
ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

22/23

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Good. Okay. So - oh, go ahead.
PATIENT: It's just almost like just to talk to somebody who doesn't know you and doesn't...you don't have like a
subjective thought about my family or anything like that, you know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And I think that's a good thing I have is objective view, you know?
PATIENT: [nonverbal 'yes'] I do, too.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well, next week at six o'clock is all right?
PATIENT: I think it's perfect.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: If they'll give that parking pass to me. (both chuckling)
COUNSELOR: So I should have some information for you about it. Okay?
PATIENT: Okay, great. [0:58:35.5]
END TRANSCRIPT

back to top
Copyright © 2008 by Alexander Street Press, LLC • About | Help | Terms of Use

ﬁle:///Users/Nikkir135/Desktop/CBT%20Examples/NYU%20CBT%20Transcripts/Transcript%204-%20Relationship%20w:%20BF%20.htm

23/23

