8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Home
Browse
Browse All Works
Browse Client Narratives
Browse Reference
Browse Session Transcripts
Browse Subjects
Browse Symptoms
Browse Therapies
Search
Help
All Works  »  Full Text

  

Search:

GO

Full Text
Multimodal CBT Therapy: This transcript is an initial therapy session with Arnold Lazarus and Juan where Juan
presents various issues that reﬂect his frustration with the contrast between what is and what should be, by Arnold
Lazarus, in Psychotherapy with the Experts, (1997), pp. 1-22
 show metadata

« Previous   

Multimodal CBT Therapy: This transcript is an initial therapy session with Arnold Lazarus and Juan where Juan ...

  

Next »

MULTIMODAL CBT THERAPY
with
Arnold Lazarus

Introduction
Arnold Lazarus was born in South Africa and received his Ph.D. in clinical psychology from the University of the
Witwatersand in Johannesburg, South Africa in 1960. He came to the United States in the 60's, ﬁrst as a visiting
assistant professor at Stanford University. He has taught at Temple University Medical School, Yale University and
Rutgers University where he is currently on the faculty. He has founded Multimodal therapy Institutes in New
Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Illinois, Ohio, and Texas. Lazarus is a Fellow in the American
Psychological Association, the American Orthopsychiatric Association, the International Academy of Eclectic
Psychotherapists and a Fellow and Diplomate on the American Board of Medical Psychotherapists. He has received
numerous awards and honors for his outstanding work in psychotherapy. Dr. Lazarus has written a number of books
both for professional and lay readers. In addition he has served and currently serves on a number of editorial boards.
This transcript is an initial therapy session with Arnold Lazarus and Juan where Juan presents various issues that
reﬂect his frustration with the contrast between what is and what should be.
Transcript
Lazarus 1: Hi. First off I want to thank you for ﬁlling in this inventory. What was your experience in doing it?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158870

1/12

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Juan 1: I thought it would never end.
Lazarus 2: Did you try and do it in one sitting?
Juan 2: Yeah I did.
Lazarus 3: Oh, of course I often say to folks do it in dribs and drabs. It's a lot of information. You've got 15 pages
here [right] and I wanted to ask you something. I got an impression in things like this and this [mhm] it's like "Boy,
is this guy pissed off or what." I mean what was the story there. Were you getting irritated with this or what?
Juan 3: Yes, yes actually. Um, yeah. the answer is yes. I was uh . .
Lazarus 4: My question is is this symptomatic of something in general or just the dumb exercise?
Juan 4: I think yes to both, both. I can tell you for, for one thing for example, I'm taking the GRE subject test in
literature this Saturday and I've done several practice tests in the past 2 weeks. The ﬁrst one bombed terribly
because I've never been a canonical type person anyway and uh, I was like at the 53rd percentile. It was horrible.
The last practice test I took was at the 77th percentile [that's a good jump] It's starting to come back. You say what's
a Cistino, what's a Villarel, what's a this and that, uh, what is the value of that. I never knew that that would be a
matter of trivial pursuit. That's all it is, rote memorization, that disgusts me. What does that measure, you know,
what does that measure. Uh, it's not indicative of anyone's uh ability, you know, um. That's mistaking the map for
the landscape. I always say that often and when I read this instead of doing that, well number one, it's just cause I'm
overloaded with that anyway kind of a thing, you know. Um, you know, it's got to be helpful in some way, the, a
tool, you know, it has to be helpful, but, [mhm] I said, jeez.
Lazarus 5: You said in one part here you said "where is this leading."
Juan 5: Where is that leading, sure.
Lazarus 6: And in fact it was leading to something very important for me [mhm] in trying to gauge something about
you. The whole idea about this is it just speeds things up, you see. Instead of my taking routine questions [mhm]
you go through this in your own time, not in one sitting [oh, yeah, well] but, uh, then one gets an idea. I came away
with some impressions which we can double check in a moment but the thing I'm most interested in is today what
kind of an issue you'd want to try an address, because I'm, what, the third or fourth therapist you've seen [mhm] and
I'd like to know how the other experiences were for you: helpful, not helpful; memorable, not memorable. that gives
me a clue on how to be with you, you see.
Juan 6: Um, issues right now, I think I just, um, I feel strangely, um, I don't know. I, I, I, I haven't become any more
rude but I feel like it's okay if I do and uh I'm not as, as, as, uh, delicately balanced I think, you know.
Lazarus 7: Did you say rude?
Juan 7: I haven't become more rude but I think it's okay if I do, I um . . .
Lazarus 8: And rude means what, expressing what you feel very straightforward [yeah, sure] shooting from the hip
[right] as opposed to kind of pussy-footing around?
Juan 8: Right.
Lazarus 9: And this was as a result of the other therapies, it kind of got you going in that direction - "I'm going to
say what I mean?"
Juan 9: Um. I can't really, boy, you know, it, one point, um, there was one person, Existential therapist, or something
like this, uh, and that was really strange. Of course I was coming at it with a, with a, from a strange point, uh, uh,
and that was interesting because it, it, it, I, that person presented something to me that I had missed all along, it was
a nice connection and I thought that's interesting. I, um, but I couldn't tell you exactly what it was but that feeling
persists cause I left thinking "there's, there's a weird clarity there." So, um. . .
Lazarus 10: So that was good. there was some connection with some kind of an innerfeeling force. [um] Is that what
you're saying and it's difﬁcult to articulate but it's there?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158870

2/12

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Juan 10: Yeah, I think, I tend to get lost in my head, the carnival of my head in terms of words all the time and, uh,
there was something good about that. I don't know what it was, so . . .[okay] But I remember that feeling.
Lazarus 11: And tell me about the others, what was different?
Juan 11: Oh, uh, the one person, it was, it was, just like doing a survey. I felt as if I were in Lincoln Mall, or one of
the shopping malls in the area, and um, was doing a survey on types of shoes I'd prefer, or this or that cologne. She
did, uh, what the heck was that called? It seemed so, uh, implicated in, in, it's like, you know, pregnant women get a
day then they're shoved out the door, you know, have the baby and get out of the hospital. And this woman
processed, it was the same kind of . . . it was like a drive-thru therapist. It was awful. It was just, it was just
wretched. She was, um, what do they call it? Brief. It was Brief therapy. It was something called Brief therapy, and I
guess I understand it if you are overloaded, but I thought god, you know, what a shame. Um, and I was thinking of
health care and stuff. I guess, I don't know. I just didn't like it at all. I thought what a shame if this is what some
people are given as opposed to something much more rich.
Lazarus 12: So you didn't feel that this was somebody cutting to the chase, like . . .
Juan 12: It was a band-aid, it was a band-aid. It was a charade. It was terrible.
Lazarus 13: I see, okay. And now you were "rude" enough to say, "Hey, let me share with you how I'm experiencing
this."
Juan 13: It was really weird, but then I was coming in with a different mood at that time too. By that point it was the
third person I'd seen, fourth person maybe, and it was like, you know, a different ﬂavor. It was a ﬂavor I didn't like. I
didn't like that ﬂavor she was giving. It was just weird.
Lazarus 14: So, okay, you liked the existential, you didn't like the brief, what else have you had that you liked or
disliked?
Juan 14: One guy was really genuine, really sincere, and uh, and I didn't think he was at all helpful except that he
was very human, uh, uh, and I liked, that's what I needed at that time. I was having one of those, uh, I fall on the
thorns of life, I bleed moments, and, and, and it's more of that studying, right? So, but that, that was, uh, otherwise,
he really wasn't very helpful at all. So, I'm not quite sure what I look for when I come into these sessions, you
know?
Lazarus 15: You see the issue of helpful, I would want you to take part in the responsibility. that if somebody said to
you did you ﬁnd our interaction helpful, I would want the answer to be yes because you are going to help me help
you, [right] you see, as opposed to having me second guess and then decide this guy's really all wet. Because one
can't be a mind reader. So, so that's why I want to zoom into something like what is an issue that you and I might try
and tackle.
Juan 15: Oh, I don't think, know if I'm getting more satisﬁed with things. My car ﬁnally blew up, so I went out and
bought a new pickup. My ﬁrst real major purchase right. So, I was just beginning to get out of debt, paying off my
undergraduate and graduate loans, this and that, blah, blah, blah. things are going well with my mother and her
hateful situation with her previous employment. Uh, anyway, so then you're moving along. I've graduated with my
master's ﬁnally. That was a big sticking point at that time, and it looks promising. I really think I'm going to ﬁnd a
back door into a program by next fall. So, uh . . .
Lazarus 16: A program meaning a Ph.D. program?
Juan 16: Yes. And you know, I said it before, and I don't know when it's supposed to feel, and maybe that's why I
feel more cavalier, I don't when the heck that's supposed to get more, um, ah, more satisfying. I don't think it's, I
don't think it's, you know, I think money's important, you know. I, I, I think money is important. And I think it's
important to tell someone, you know, it's like an appendage, being an appendage, um. Boy, that's, it's idyllic to really
think people give a damn. You know, they really don't, and, mostly, uh, you're an appendage, you're a line in a
budget. You're a face ﬂoating above a desk there, answering phones. So,
Lazarus 17: Interesting, 'cause what you are saying now ties into many themes that were reiterated in here, and that
is a kind of an idealism of the one hand that is smashed by the hard reality that you've experienced. Great anger and
disillusionment of that at times, back to well it can't be all that bad, back to well, it's worse than that. I mean, that
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158870

3/12

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

sort of circularity, you see. [Yeah] And if I could jump right in there, I would say I think that the cynical view is an
accurate one because this is not a world of kindness, happiness, etc. [Mhm] But there is a way through that maze
where you decide what it is that you want to do and pursue it for your happiness. Not because of the glamour, the
glitz, how it's going to appear to others, that kind of . . . How do you feel about that little speech I've just made?
Juan 17: I can't believe I put it in there, but apparently, I did. Um, I think that's true. I feel a lot of anger. I couldn't
sleep last night. You know, I woke up at 7:00 which for me is very early, so I got about ﬁve hours sleep, 2:00 to
7:00, and I couldn't get back to sleep, and um, and I've been really irritated lately uh, but at nothing in particular, uh.
Can't explain it. So, I don't know, you know. I've just been really irritated, angry almost.
Lazarus 18: Okay, the impression here was this fellow I'm about to meet has a short fuse. Is that right?
Juan 18: Yeah, I do think I have a, I think I'm quick to judge. I think I'm harsh. I don't think I'm, um . . . you know,
uh, short fuse but I don't release it. I never release it because if I do it's like a mushroom cloud, you know. It's
Hiroshima, because, um, uh, that's very rare, um. I almost never, um, let that go.
Lazarus 19: So, what happens? Do you just kind of bottle it up, clam up and say nothing and feel really bugged?
Juan 19: A lot of times yeah, uh. I don't know how much that, except for last night, uh, gets in the way, you know. I
really think people, you know, people need a good kick in the rear, kick in the rear sometimes. Why don't they get
it? I don't understand. Do I keep it bottled up? I guess, but you know you go on to other things. There are other
things to get on to. Other things to be irritated with and to think about. So, I don't know, um. How does that all
translate, you know. The part of my job, uh, still love my truck though, uh. I don't know how the program is going
to turn out. A three year commitment. I know that I don't want to grow up which is why I'm going into that. I think
the university is the one place that you can stay, man, irresponsible forever really, um . . .
Lazarus 20: You've just hit me with about ﬁve things. Let me tell you what they are. It's sort of one, do I really want
to pursue this thing, or am I doing it for ulterior motives, how committed am I to it? How good an idea is that,
meaning the Ph.D.? Ph.D. in what by the way?
Juan 20: I really don't care. I think the back door is going to be something in American studies or cultural studies as
opposed to English which I think is custodial. It's a custodial, um, discipline.
Lazarus 21: the other part is if you've got a kind of judgmental harshness to others, chances are it reverberates onto
self. [Yes] So you are tough on one if you see what I'm saying. And none of these things are helpful because one of
the things that you want to do is not have a short fuse, develop what we want to call high frustration tolerance.
[Okay] You don't give a damn. [Mhm] And are reality based. I mean, turn on the news and there are enough things
to get bugged about in the ﬁrst ten minutes in this world. [Mm] But that doesn't help, you see, getting wound up
over that doesn't help. [Mm] So, what we do instead is pretty much proceed with the proceedings. How do you go
through life harming nobody in the process but getting what you want? that's the philosophical question, I mean.
How's yourreaction to that?
Juan 21: Mm, yeah, you know, I ﬁgure, um, oh shoot. I suppose it'll all turn out, um, I really do, I ﬁgure it will all
turn out. I don't know when, but, um, hm . . .
Lazarus 22: I don't like "It'll turn out." I'll make it turn out. [Right] I'm going to take the initiative. I'm going to take
control. I'm going to be the choreographer of my own life.
Juan 22: I, well, I think I'm doing that more than I used to, um. I don't want to work, never did. I'm just, you know, I
don't know how satisﬁed people are doing things anymore. You know, I don't see I take pride and respect. My
father's accomplishments, my mother's accomplishments, my niece's accomplishments, things like this, um, for
other people, I mean, depending if I value that, people I respect, and then I . . but I don't know, you know. I, I, I, I
don't really believe, I don't believe in the substance of things these days. I really don't. I just don't. The closer I get to
realizing economic freedom, um, uh, adulthood, whatever that means, the Ph.D. which is supposed to be some kind
of pinnacle of academician, whatever, what a fantasy. that's just, it's a fantasy.
Lazarus 23: It's not a pinnacle. It's an entry point as I see it. It gives you opportunities, that's what it does. Period.
But you said something earlier I want to go back to. About Vesuvius. that you will sit on your feelings 'cause if you
express them there is going to be like World War III, Pearl Harbor, what have you all at once, the mushroom cloud.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158870

4/12

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Juan 23: Yeah, yeah, yes. Right.
Lazarus 24: Now, now what I want to suggest is what would happen if what you did was you released a little bit at a
time, you see. Does it have to be all or none, is that the fear? I mean, just take the cork out and pow, everything
goes. Let's keep it well, well corked.
Juan 24: I think people do that all the time. A little bit at a time. they, they, they give themselves permission to be
rude or whatever they call it, you know. "Well, I was having a bad day." Uh, I don't value that.
Lazarus 25: I'm with you, I'm with you. I'm interested in the word rude that comes up because my favorite term is
the one that we often use in the profession which is assertive. Assertive is not aggressive, and the whole thing of
assertive means one is polite, one is courteous, one is tactful, but one is into TNC which stands for take no crap.
[Mm]. And you can do that delicately, ﬁnely, philosophically, but that's it. I don't take crap. What is your feeling
about that?
Juan 25: I think I'm starting to get to that. I'm sort of thinking that's okay, you know, mm, taking no crap, you know.
I can't worry anymore. I really can't worry as much how someone perceives me, you know.
Lazarus 26: That's good.
Juan 26: You know, I can't do it. And, um, and I still reserve the right to decide when, uh, someone is, uh, utilizing
their own version of TNC and when it's being plain rude, plain selﬁsh, plain un-giving. You know, just dead wood,
and you know, uh, just a drag, just a drag on the system, just a weight on the line. I reserve that right to make that
distinction, you know, um . . .
Lazarus 27: Do you agree with me that one can be assertive, direct, and at the same time not rude?
Juan 27: (pause) Yeah. You'd have to have good reason for doing it. I think you'd have to have clear lines. It couldn't
be anything frivolous like, well, I had a bad day, or um, gee, I'm just not myself without my coffee in the morning,
you know.
Lazarus 28: But, that's the rude part, that's the rude part. the assertive part is something like this. Do me a favor. Can
you just turn down the stereo a bit. [mhm] that's "assertive," that's not rude. Now why, you're having a bad day. You
haven't had your coffee. that's why you'd like that stereo down, but look at your style. See, I think style is so
important. You haven't said something rude, like you inconsiderate nincompoop. Can't you see I . . . that's not style.
Style is do me a favor, I'm sorry to intrude, but would you mind turning down the stereo. I've got a hell of a
headache, or I need some coffee. then you can turn it up. You see, how does that sound? Cause I have a feeling you
don't do that very often.
Juan 28: I used to, you know, um. At least I tell myself I used to. I don't really, um, people tell me I used to do that
in fact. I don't really remember. I always thought I was kind of a, I read a lot and kept to myself, but, uh, I do know
this. there was a time when I was a kid in high school I could go in elevators and just make, the people would part. I
don't know what vibe that was, but, uh, I remember that distinctly. Going into rooms and just, you know, people
grabbing their purses and things.
Lazarus 29: What did that feel like? I mean was it good or bad, indifferent?
Juan 29: I could have cared less. Maybe that's what it was. I just didn't care, and um, you know. So I know I, I, I did
something there. I, I, I, at least I like to tell myself, I arrested that in a way, uh. I have really no desire to go back to
it, um. I have that capacity.
Lazarus 30: Not decide to go back to it? What's it? I didn't get that. You have no desires to go back to it . . .
Juan 30: To that way, uh, yeah, I guess, go back to that. Well, you know, you can't force insight into people clearly,
and you can't make them understand you, you know, when you are in that teen angst, and you can't, uh, you can't do
that. I couldn't force my parents to read, um, you know, Spencer. I couldn't force them to do that.
Lazarus 31: Does it matter, does it matter?

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158870

5/12

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Juan 31: Not anymore. I guess that's when you grow up. But at the time I thought geez, you know, ah that was
frustrating. But it still is. there are so many people who run around and they're being praised, and they are so
mediocre, and they must know it. You're not fooling me, and I hate when I'm doctor this, and I'm doctor that. that's
what frightens me too. Doctor this, doctor that. You know, some people are in the medical profession, and I respect
that. that's a doctor. But if you have a Ph.D. in music, a Ph.D. in that, you're not a doctor. You know, I hate when,
I'm doctor so and so. Well . . .
Lazarus 32: Well it has been argued that because Ph.D.'s have put in more hours than your M.D.'s, they're entitled to
the accolation. I mean there has been that argument, but you don't sort of use it in a grandiose sense. But it's
interesting to me. You've got a tremendous concern it seems about what other people do and think and feel. there's a
lot of this issue of how genuine are they. How caring are they, and I would say that you're probably not very macho
either, [huh] but so what. There are some pickings, there are some nice folks out there you see. But it comes back to
you, human being. What do you want to do. And I don't know why, I've just got this intuitive sense that this
assertiveness thing is a big one. Meaning that if you got into the habit of stating what you feel, not rudely, but
assertively. It's like stopping right now and saying, "Do that with me." Here we are in the middle of our ﬁrst
meeting. We've never set eyes on each other. And here I am in this capacity trying to be helpful, and am I being
helpful? Am I being a pain in the ass? What's happening here, you see. Be honest.
Juan 32: I have a GRE this Saturday, and when I focus on things like that I really don't know what, you know. It,
things become very, uh, routine. You fall into a pattern. And, uh, you know. . .
Lazarus 33: That's an answer to my question about how I'm doing? What's my GRE so far? Five hundred?
Juan 33: No, I, you know, yeah, uh, I guess that's where my focus is right now. I really don't have . . .
Lazarus 34: So you are concerned as hell about these forthcoming GRE's?
Juan 34: Sure.
Lazarus 35: I mean, and it is a dumb kind of a thing, there is no question about it. I know the GRE game. I've often
argued that we admit students whose GRE's were not off the scale, and sometimes I've won, they have been the
ﬁnest students. I've seen others with seven hundreds in everything and, hey man, it's not the answer. But again, you
are going to do your best and see what happens. But your life shouldn't hinge on that.
Juan 35: No, I, well, I've staked it on there. there is no doubt about that. that's where it is, you know. I need to know
that I'm going somewhere by next fall because, um, it would be safe. I think I could do it. It's easy. You know,
unsatisfying, but you don't have to think too much about it. Occasional glints of, um, uh, but it would be a nice
recluse for three or four years, just a nice way of postponing things.
Lazarus 36: And then, but you see you need a pattern. Let's give you your Ph.D. in whatever it is. then it's a matter
of being the perennial student if you like and become a professor. they also are in sheltered employment and are able
to maintain their youth. Youth is a big thing in here too. [Mhm] I mean you are an old man of 30.
Juan 36: Yeah, I feel it (laughs). I was getting younger for a while. I was old until about 20, and then I got real
young until about 26. Now I'm old again.
Lazarus 37: I see. So by 35 you are going to be mighty young. It's going to sort of hit you, right?
Juan 37: One or the other. Yeah, one or the other. Perception these days, yeah, I feel old. Thirty-something.
Lazarus 38: Tell me what you said about the GRE's. The ﬁrst test was kind of a bomb, the trial. You hit what?
Juan 38: Oh, it was wretched. It was like 55th, 53rd, 55th percentile. Something like that.
Lazarus 39: And then you jumped up to 70th?
Juan 39: 77th as of the last, the third attempt.
Lazarus 40: And today is Wednesday. There is another practice or two in there.
Juan 40: Yeah.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158870

6/12

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Lazarus 41: So, I put my money on that being okay with you is my guess. But that seems to be a big, big thing right
now. It almost seems as though you can't quite focus on other things cause that's riveting your attention.
Juan 41: Yeah. I'm running out of time. I waited too long to do it anyway. But I didn't, I, I, I, I checked out that book
from the library. Didn't bother to open it. It never occurred to me it would simply be multiple choice rote
memorization of questions. I had no idea that was what it was. So I said, geez, when's the last time I readCanterbury
Tales? When was the last time I read Ray Pollock. So, clearly I can't go back and shove that all down my throat
again, but um . . .
Lazarus 42: This is for the verbal, for the verbal GRE's?
Juan 42: No this is for the subject test.
Lazarus 43: Subject test. [Yeah] I see.
Juan 43: So, and the creepy thing is, you know, it's working. You know, you start, it's just trivial pursuit. So, I'm
starting to remember, oh yeah this, oh yeah of course, oh, yes. And what does that have to do with anything. It's
terrible. But I'll do it to get in.
Lazarus 44: Well, unfortunately, there are a lot of hoops one has to jump through. I ﬁnd that, I teach at Rutgers
University, [Mhm] and I'm in the doctoral program training people to be shrinks as it were, and there's so much
garbage they have to learn. I've often wondered about that, but that's the way it goes. You bite the bullet and do it,
you see, which is ﬁne. And I'm sure our students are mighty resentful, they have to be, about a lot of the garbage. I
know I was when I was astudent, [Yeah] but the notion is, but there is this theme in your life. So, what do I do
afterwards? That's a big one.
Juan 44: Yeah.
Lazarus 45: What is (gestures hitting ﬁst on stomach)?
Juan 45: I'm getting hungry I think. You know, I always thought it would be insurance. I thought it would be
insurance.
Lazarus 46: In insurance?
Juan 46: People say, oh you got your master's. Big deal, you know. But if you say that, that is a cultural currency,
and you think, I'll take it.
Lazarus 47: People say, we get into this people say.
Juan 47: Well, you know, I don't, I'll tell you what, you know. I don't think it's going to stand up inside me like some
armature or, or, it will be external, but I'll take it too. "Oh there's professor (censored)." Oh, you know, great. I'll take
that shielding. I'll take that, um, ﬁlter, whatever you want to call it, you know. I'll take it, uh, and leave me alone, I
guess. then I can go about my business, (laughs), you know, so getting to that point, though. I look forward to
getting to that point. I look forward to getting to that point. It's not going to be difﬁcult. It will be fun I think. I think
lecturing will be a lot of fun.
Lazarus 48: Seems to me that there are two components here. the one is it, does it mean anything. And on the one
hand it sounds like it ought to be momentous. I mean clouds should part, thunderbolts should be zooming around.
[Yeah] And it doesn't mean a thing. And I guess both are wrong. It's like you know it does have meaning. As I said
before, it's a key, it's an entry point. If I hadn't bothered to go on for my Ph.D., I couldn't have gained entry into the
work that I've been doing which I've found rewarding. I just needed that, and let me tell you. I hate my alma mater. I
come from South Africa where there was a battle of wits, and my feeling was I won. In getting my Ph.D. I won. The
institution lost, you see. I hope our students don't feel that way, but I think some might. However, when it comes
back to it, it's worth something. It is a key. What you make of it is up to you is the sense. But again, you were
shaking your foot which makes you feel you are feeling impatient and uncomfortable.
Juan 48: Well, you know, I don't, well, when, uh, what, it's so silly isn't it. It's just silly, shit. I guess that's when you
start looking for, you know, things with deeper meaning, uh. I can't imagine 9 to 5. I can't imagine, I mean I agree
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158870

7/12

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

with what you are saying, I agree it's alright, but sometimes it's just such a drag having to uh, just do things. Just to
get up and do anything, you know, uh. I do what I like and great, but, um . . .
Lazarus 49: Well, it is.
Juan 49: It's not really a problem. I think it makes me an underachiever. It makes me a procrastinator. It makes me
many things. It makes me regretful of being those things too, uh, and, and where I'm stuck now I feel like I'm really
in a mire. But, um . . .
Lazarus 50: But yet you have persisted. You have achieved. You have not dropped out. [Yeah] You have in fact
progressed. [Mhm] And I think that's important. And if past behavior is the best predictor of future behavior, that's
what you will do. But you don't want 9 to 5, you don't want to be stultiﬁed, and all of these things I can resonate
with. [Mhm] Had I won the lottery ten or twenty years ago, I would have had a different trajectory I promise you,
you see. [Yeah] But I didn't, and I stuck with what was the best that I could do. [Mhm] Given the circumstances. So
that's what happens. So it is a matter of you almost feel that part of what you would need would be "career
counseling" of some kind somewhere along the line. Strange to be this far ahead, but career counseling of a different
kind. What do you want to actually do. How do you want to parlay your training education into something that's
satisfying for you? That kind of a direction seems to be important.
Juan 50: That's a mystery to me too. I, I don't know how people do it. I, uh, I don't know how people ﬁnd jobs. I
don't know how people do interviews. I don't know how they make selections, uh. I participate in all that. I sit in on
hiring, you know, we are going to hire this and that, and we are going to hire someone upstairs. Why don't you
participate in that. Fine. But, um, and I know what I'm looking for, strangely enough in a candidate, but, ah, but, um,
hell, I don't know. That gets back to being an appendage. That gets back to uh, ah, to being a talking head really.
Damn, I, you know . . .
Lazarus 51: Explain that to me. An appendage in that sense versus what if one was not an appendage what would
one be.
Juan 51: You would be necessary. You would be indispensable or at least valued. You would be, uh, human to
someone else, so . . .
Lazarus 52: Ah ha. Okay. I'm getting a clue. Interested in my clue? My clue is that there is again a tremendous
amount of emphasis on what others think. How valuable am I. To be indispensable, almost nobody ever becomes
indispensable. therefore, what's the emphasis? Are you enjoying it? Is it meaningful to you? Are you having fun?
Juan 52: Not only that. I see people, I see people at the, at the, at the supervisory level or what not treating others
like, not just myself, I had that. I despise that, uh, uh. Of course, this is my mom again. You know, you're, you're,
you're 64 and someone, you know, some creep comes along and, and, uh, you know, you can't dash people like that.
I used to think that everything I did. . .
Lazarus 53: I'm not following that. Your mom is 64?
Juan 53: Yeah. But she is employed again, and we are still pursuing this thing.
Lazarus 54: And what were you saying, some creep comes along?
Juan 54: Yeah, this new person in the workplace. Yeah, uh, here I am thinking that, of course you wouldn't know,
but, uh, the story. But, uh, you know, so anyway, this guy comes in. He's a real creep. they hound you out the door.
You know how they do that, they hound you out the door. Why do they want to do it? They take a disliking to you.
It's one of those irrational situations, and, uh, as if this person couldn't wait the year until retirement, the nine
months. As if this person couldn't see what they call circulation of energy within the community, you know. This is,
this is a closure for this woman's life. As if you didn't know the odds that this wasn't the population that you're being
given federal grants to supposedly to serve instead of farming people like they are sheep. I'm getting angry.
Lazarus 55: And justiﬁably.
Juan 55: It disgusts me. You have no idea how much. I, I used to tell myself, and I'm glad, you know, I'm glad, the
person I was with man, I was nuts. I felt like a six foot tall rabbit with a watch saying, "I'm late, I'm late." I'm glad I
put myself through that ringer and, and, and took on all that because we are giving those people the biggest run, I
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158870

8/12

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

think, and great ulcers, you know. And, um, I can't tolerate it. I'm thinking reverse mortgages and things. I can't
tolerate anybody doing some things sometimes in particular, uh. If someone can't speak for themselves, does that
give you the right to come and, and throw your full weight against them? Mediocre thing, even though you are such
an authority and stuff, you know. I used to tell myself that, um, I guess it's protection too. You know, I, I want to
know that I can handle myself either verbally or, or by position by a Ph.D., by whatever, you know, uh, and, and, uh,
protect things, uh, people.
Lazarus 56: So you are talking about the tremendous unfairness, the kind of ubiquitous negativity and how it gets
one down, and, and my feeling there is, hey, you did right. One cannot say your perceptions are off. they're right on.
But what to do about them? I'm reminded of the boxer in the ring, and as you may be able to tell from my proboscis,
I was into boxing, you see. Didn't do as well as I wanted to, however, the point is that in the ring this guy's pounding
you. You feel the blood running down your mouth. You want to knock his block off. You are angry. You are in
trouble now if he's half a ﬁghter. You lose your temper. You bring your hand back to knock his block off. You've just
opened yourself up and he's going to lay you out. therefore, the trainers always said keep cool, keep cool, keep cool.
Strategize. Now here's a situation where some bimbo goes and turns your mother out. The guy could wait nine
months when the lady turns 65. The whole playing ﬁeld changes, but oh no. And you are justiﬁably mad. But you're
in the ring. Keep cool, keep cool. No point in getting mad. What are you going to do? Are you going to jab? Are
you going to hook? Something has got to be done. You see, now that kind of a metaphor has held me in good stead.
I shared with you for what it may be worth.
Juan 56: No that's um, good, graphic and accurate. I, you know, variate, I mean, unavoidably so, she is in there
battling, you know. I told her, you know, that too, and I'm glad I did. I'm glad that I've been beat up a lot because
that really got us through, uh, these silly meetings and silly . . . we did fantastic. those people were so aggravated,
and they were so sorry they did this. And I hope they'll be sorrier still. You have to learn to cover up, you have to
learn to cover up. You're right, and to not lose your cool because they will press your hot buttons, and don't.
Lazarus 57: Okay. Now we've come to buttons, and to me buttons is a very important concept. My ideal is there
ought not to be a button meaning that we disconnect them all. that buttons are things that people set off very often
by words. [Mhm] Does it seem realistic to you if I say, I would like to see you as a person where someone would
say to get this guy riled up you've got to get up really early and work very hard at it. Because his buttons have been
switched off. they could say anything to you, and you don't have to give them the power of reacting. Does that seem
human, feasible, desirable?
Juan 57: Mm, I don't know. I don't know if I like that. You know why? Because I see other people do it. there's a
diplomatic reptility in a lot of people, and, uh [laughter, diplomatic reptility] there's an elegant violence in a lot of
people. You can see it sometimes. You can see little, you know, little shiny things almost coming at you, and, um,
it's, it's, it's impressive, uh, you know, I, I, I think gosh what craftsmanship. But, uh, you know, uh, I mean a knife is
a knife. I don't care how much you polish and, uh . . .
Lazarus 58: A knife is a knife, but words are not knives. this comes maybe from my profession. But in the course of
my therapy, let's say one of my patient's turns to me and calls me the biggest nerd turd in the world. If I take
exception to this, if I'm hurt, blown away, I'm not very good. I, I have to be philosophical and try to understand what
this person is saying. Now you don't have to be a therapist in an ofﬁce to do the same thing. [Mhm] If somebody
comes and thinks how can I insult this guy. Shall I say something negative about his mother or about his age or, and
the answer would be these are not knives. Say what the heck you like. You are showing yourself off to be a jerk.
that's what I mean by knocking off the buttons.
Juan 58: Well, I think I have it under control, you're right. Maybe I haven't disconnected the buttons, but I don't let it
show. If, if that button is pressed. Maybe that's the cork thing.
Lazarus 59: But you say feeling inside.
Juan 59: Yeah, sometimes. Not as much as I used to. I used to a lot more.
Lazarus 60: Why has it changed? What has been the helpful thing there?
Juan 60: It happens enough. I mean it happens a lot. It happens so often . . .
Lazarus 61: So you get desensitized?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158870

9/12

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Juan 61: Yes you get desensitized. I don't want to be entirely desensitized.
Lazarus 62: No, no.
Juan 62: But like I say when it's a, it's a genuine, when it's undeniably real.
Lazarus 63: When what's undeniably real?
Juan 63: Um, a wrong. A transgression. Man, yeah. It's hard to . . .
Lazarus 64: Well, here's my strategy. An undeniable wrong has been committed, Juan. this is a pretty nasty piece of
work. Now what are we going to do about it? this is the cool calm. Shall we throw jabs, punches, or do we sort of
come in here with a little stick of dynamite? What's our tactic, you see. But one is at all times cool and calculating in
those contexts. Does that sit well or not sit well?
Juan 64: Yeah. But, uh, it's, it's still hateful. It's distasteful, I guess. I mean what a drag. What a drag that you have to
do that. It's smart and I had a professor in history. They were all Marxist weren't they? But he says you know what,
you've got to learn to cover up. You are such an easy target. Do you know that? And, uh, so I've been working on
that for a while. I think I've gotten very good at that. Then there's conventional, unconventional means of protest.
There was using as a mirror and you do something by way of object lesson which still goes over the heads of so
many buffoons. So, um, you know, then there's your spin doctors, um. No, I'm content. I think as far as, as I'm
learning to deal with these people I'm content. I like my anger, and I look forward to a, to a nice resolution with
those people who, you know, if someone does something to me I can put up with more. Don't do it to someone else.
That really upsets me. I think I can take it more than the other person, you know.
Lazarus 65: Are you tougher or what?
Juan 65: Am I tougher, no, I just, I can deal with it, um, I, I really can't. the thought of it. And it happens, you know,
with your family or friends. Or people you don't know. I just, wow, I can't tolerate that. It seems like it's so all over
the place. I don't know. You know, I don't know what keeps me being 30 and only now going into a Ph.D. program.
I think it's a love/hate relationship. I think I've always wanted to do those things, um. You know ideals are
stereotypes. I made a comment once. there was some kind of weird GSU underground meeting here with staff,
administration and professor or what not get together and try to think of ways to ﬁx the community, uh, and I made
a comment that, uh, whether right or wrong, a lot of people really ﬁrst generation, I don't care how old you are or
where you're coming from, will come into a school and by myth or what expect this place to resonate, expect, you
expect more of someone don't you? Not quite a priest, but I guess that's what the robes mean when you graduate, but
you expect more of these people as, um, and then we allow ourselves to have bad days, you know, we allow
ourselves . . .
Lazarus 66: That's interesting. You expect more of these people, and then we are ﬁnding out that more and more
people in the most delicate high ofﬁces are people. they are fallible human beings. they are all fallible. And
therefore you don't expect. Um, you strike me as a candidate for what we in the trade call rational emotive behavior
therapy which consists of a way of really and truly looking at expectations and answering the question, can I really
expect that? Of course, you can only expect what you can get. If you can't get it, don't waste your energy, chum. Use
it somewhere else, you see. So, were we to move into a second session from this one, my game plan would be to sit
down with you an, say, one, this is where I want to head. Does this make sense to you? I want to double up on the
assertiveness. I want to make sure that this becomes part of the repertoire that you are comfortable with, that you
won't endure a session with me or anybody without saying to the person, you are bugging me. And you wouldn't be
rude about it. You are entitled to say that. Number two, that when these injustices occur, and they always occur, that
you will deal with them very coolly and rationally and effectively. Not unemotionally, but not to the point where
you become, you know, blown away by it. Thirdly, that you are going to expect less, and that, I think is one of the
big things that I have found you talk about, you know, maturity. My horizons have come down as I've grown older. I
expect less. What does that mean? I'm not disappointed as often. I just didn't expect more. Now that hasn't turned
me into some horrible cynic skeptic, you know, miserable, no, no but it's reality based. Now how does that sit with
you. That's a long speech.
Juan 66: If, uh, it sounds like more of a key than I have now, so I'm a ﬂexible person. I'm willing to try, uh,
something that would make me I think more productive. I prefer passion, I think, to emotion. I don't think I'm
confusing the two, um. I don't know if I even want to tinker with that, you know. But, uh, and I think I don't want to
be, I think, you know, is why perpetuate it. Why perpetuate that culture of reptility, you know, so . . .
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158870

10/12

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Lazarus 67: I'm not advocating reptility or cabbages or anything of the kind. [Uh huh] It's a hell of a different modus
operandi and vivendi and it is not without passion. But it is without blind emotion that just disables one. I mean,
that, that's the thing.
Juan 67: Okay, I wouldn't mind that. I, I, I, I'd like being enabled. I know something keeps me, now and then I
focus, you know. Like for this Saturday thing, I'm focused. But it's just a matter of actually getting to that point,
committing, sending in my check, you know it's expensive. And then saying, oh my god, I have two weeks. I guess I
really better start. And then that's not very effective. But, uh, I wish I could focus like that more.
Lazarus 68: It could be worse. there is one thing I want to come back to, to end with, and that is the question of selfcriticism, self-judgment, self-abnegation, the sense of boy you get down on yourself, that you are at times like a
fascist to yourself. [Okay] It's like saying, wow, that doesn't help. You wouldn't want to see anybody else treated that
way. Now if I see you treating yourself abominably, it's horrible. Of course, to me you're another person. I couldn't
care who's treating you badly. If it's one of these jerks out there we have been talking about or if it's you. It still is
horrible. So, I'd want to work on that, you see. No self-fascism.
Juan 68: That's funny. I think I've gotten better at that too, I'll tell you. I think I used to be a lot worse, and certainly I
don't verbalize it as much. People always make those self-depreciating remarks. I don't do that as much. I mean
we're in session right, but, um . . .
Lazarus 69: My sense of you is that you are launched on a positive trajectory. That, you know, there is going to be
momentum and that there are many things that you used to do that you don't do anymore. I think that's very true, and
that's going to continue, but my notion is don't sit back passively just waiting for it. [Mhm] But you want to think
how can I expedite what is already started. So, that's, that's what we would need to think about. I've got to get a
quick grading for today before we end. Do I get an A-, a B, a C, an F? What's, what's, what's the feeling at this
stage? You can change your mind later.
Juan 69: I was just thinking about that as you spoke it. I, I was thinking to myself, um, does ﬁrst general whatever
you want to call it, like I say, I, I, I feel something's happening. Boy if it doesn't, if I don't go somewhere by next
fall, we will be back to square one, but it's further along, um, and marking, uh, marking that with the ﬁrst session as
a starting point must make it coincidental. Yeah, I would say it's helped. I would say it's, it's more than I thought it
would be quite honestly. this was, um, such a turn off, but it's all I've been doing, stuff like this, um . . .
Lazarus 70: The timing was bad, I mean to give this to a guy who is about to do his GRE's. The timing was bad. But
anyhow, I think it was helpful cause it did give me some clues as to what it is all about. A pleasure, and the best if I
may say so.
Juan 70: Thank you.
Lazarus 71: Take care.
Treatment Plan for Juan
Lazarus notes that, while there was some mention of Juan's anger, this area would need to be examined more closely
when Juan felt safe with the therapist. The client stayed in the cognitive mode through most of this session and
Lazarus suggests bridging into the affective mode in later sessions. One might use mental imagery to help Juan
express more of his underlying emotions. It would also be important to explore Juan's conﬂicts and where he is
heading in his life. Lazarus suspects that he has several dysfunctional beliefs which would need to be addressed. the
therapist who works with Juan would want to be aware that other issues could arise and be ﬂexible enough to
modify his or her treatment approach as needed.
To Learn More About Multimodal therapy
BOOKS
Lazarus, A. A. (1976). Multimodal behavior therapy. NY: Springer.
Lazarus, A. A. (1981). The practice of Multimodal Therapy. NY: McGraw-Hill. (Updated paperback edition
published in 1989 by the Johns Hopkins University Press, Baltimore.)
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158870

11/12

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Lazarus, A. A. (1985). Casebook of Multimodal Therapy. NY: Guilford.
Lazarus, A. A. (1997). Brief but comprehensive psychotherapy: The multimodal way. NY: Springer.
VIDEOTAPES
Multimodal Behavior therapy. (1978).In three Psychotherapies II, Psychological Films, Inc., Orange, CA.
Multimodal therapy. (1994). APA Psychotherapy Videotape Series, American Psychological Association,
Washington, DC.

back to top
Copyright © 2008 by Alexander Street Press, LLC • About | Help | Terms of Use

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158870

12/12

