8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Home
Browse
Browse All Works
Browse Client Narratives
Browse Reference
Browse Session Transcripts
Browse Subjects
Browse Symptoms
Browse Therapies
Search
Help
All Works  »  Full Text

  

GO

Search:

Full Text
Session 2: Client talks about her friends from her country as well as the friends she has made while in America, in
Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety, (2006), pp. 1-24
 show metadata

« Previous   

Session 2: Client talks about her friends from her country as well as the friends she has made while in Americ...

   Next »

TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Third consult. Marta Quinn. October 25th. Betty Johnson.
PATIENT: Yeah, I'm feeling better. I think it's been really helpful to come here and not only tell you what - how I
feel. But being able to think what-how I'm feeling and why I'm feeling like that so.
COUNSELOR: Kind of think out loud and process your thoughts. Talk about loud even if... You don't necessarily
need a person to respond to you but just to hear you own thoughts.
PATIENT: Yeah, that's... Yeah, I've been feeling better. Should I keep telling the story?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I'm curious too. Help me understand what is it like fro you-coming from Portugal. I'm
wondering why you're here in the States and on campus. Do you have any attachments to the Portuguese community
here or the Spanish speaking community here? How does that work for you? [0:01:17.3]
PATIENT: When I got here, I stayed at a friend of my father's. My dad works in the Police department in Portugal
and there was a guy that worked there and was doing a master's here. He was three years older than me. So my dad
put me in contact with him. So when I got to Whitehall, he was Portuguese and-from Portugal.
His neighbor was from Portugal too, the guy doing a PhD. In Education, I think yeah. So Pedros, and YonathanYonathan is the guy I lived with-Pedros and Pedros' girlfriend, Sara. She lives in Berkley, but yeah, she used to
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

1/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

come a lot to Whitehall during the weekends. There was a girl who lived right next from Pedros and she was from
Amora. The city I was born in Portugal.
COUNSELOR: What's the name of the city? [0:02:18.0]
PATIENT: I was born in Amora. A-M-O-R-A. Amora. I don't know how you say it. So they met her randomly. I
don't know how they met. And there was another girl from Spain. So it was like a - oh, and my ex-boyfriend Jose.
He met Pedro and Yonathan through some other person, some Portuguese yeah. When we see-when we hear that
there are some other people, since it's really small? Not a lot of people. So we try to make a group.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: So we were really integrated. And this was March of 2005. So it was - a tight group, like hanging out. I
started dating Jose. But I still had a lot of friends from school. American, speaking English. I have always thought
and keep thinking that for-to be able to ﬁt in a culture you need to speak the language quite well. And I would say
pretty well but I'm not in that moment yet. I have to improve more. And another culture, you know how they are. So
I always try to keep like - I was really interested in keeping a Portuguese group of friends
COUNSELOR: And your American...
PATIENT: And my American group of friends. And they were from the program. The PhD, they were all PhD
students. So it was really-and one of them-one of my best friend's, my lab mate, Christina. So it - it was really like-it
was really good for me. I had the Portugal support but my friends from school that I'd go and have lunch with. That
I'd have pot lucks and parties and so they're like American girls or Asian girls. But we have to speak in English. So I
was really happy to have that because a lot of these Portugal people, they only hang out with Latin American
people?
So their English was not good-as good as some others and... And they didn't know a lot of things about Whitehall. I
have friends that are from another part of Michigan. So I have been to their houses and spent weekends with their
families. I think I have learned a lot about the Midwest culture. Which makes me really happy. I really enjoy
learning about other cultures. Understanding-that helps me understand how people in Portugal are. You know, when
you're able to compare? [0:05:16.4]
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: You get to feel differences. It's hard because it's really different. The things that are ally important in
Portugal. Here, they're not.
COUNSELOR: Like you were telling me before about time and relationships.
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Like family, family, family. Yeah, I know. People here, they go to different cities and if your parents live
in Michigan, it doesn't mean you're going to live in Michigan. And you move to the west coast and you see them
two, three times a year.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: That in Portugal it's really weird. People don't do that. That was good to know to learn and that was also
good because I didn't feel I was abandoned my family. I see that a lot of girls here my age they're doing the PhD,
they move away from their parents. They, what else-they're independent. Like of course, if you need money because
you're struggling with your debt.
You can ask them if they can help you. But it doesn't mean you're economically dependent. You don't depend on
your parents. So that was really good. I get to live by myself, being independent, change my relationship with my
parents. [0:06:39.9]
COUNSELOR: Right, Americans would have-if you would have been Portuguese and had that type of tension that
you described for me in the last session, it would have been - it seems like that would've been really stressful for
you.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

2/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: It was really stressful. Right now I can tell them this is what I think and I think you should do this. Please
don't - I'm not at your clinics. Don't come and tell me all the bad things. But exactly. I can do that because I don't
(inaudible at 0:07:07.8). So it's not like they-sometimes I've seen with my parents in Portugal, they don't live with
their parents. A lot of people do it. Or some people still live with their parents.
So if their parents get mad, how are you going to ask them for money? Or like you're still having a lot of ﬁghts with
your parents about money (ph), living together and money issues. So it's very - it's easy... easier to handle the thing
with my brother and friends if I'm outside the house. And when your parents give you all the money and all the
support, they - it's really easy for them to manipulate you.
COUNSELOR: So like in a sense you'd [still have to obey] (ph) if you're mad at them or...
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: They'll tell you. "We don't want you to go there. We don't need the money." Your hands are tied.
COUNSELOR: So you're enjoying this independence?
PATIENT: It's hard some-I feel really lonely sometimes. But it's good. I know I have to-I know I have to live this.
And, but after I adapt, after I get-how do you say that? After a little bit I will be able to enjoy more. Right now, I
enjoy - it's 11:00. I just want to go to the - and buy a beer. If you live with your parents, it's a whole thing to leave
the house at midnight or...
COUNSELOR: [Or whenever.] (ph)
PATIENT: Or like I have to go to the library at 1:00 am, I don't know. Whatever. Yeah, so that independence is
really good. You don't have to tell everyone where they're going or ask for their permission to go to.
COUNSELOR: Isn't there a source in there for - for you?
PATIENT: Like?
COUNSELOR: On the one hand, this independence is liberating, it's freeing, you're enjoying being able to go and
do. But is there a source of conﬂict? Is there some negative feeling?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Or negative thoughts you have about it.
PATIENT: No, never. I've been always independent compared to Portuguese style of living. I've been independent. I
mean, yeah. I've always tried to be independent.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:09:49.6)
PATIENT: Be my style. But still you get a lot of restrictions. But here, you can do whatever you want. So take care
of yourself. No, I mean it's really good. The only thing-the only part I don't like is being so far away. That it takes
me a whole day and one thousand dollars to get it-to see my family. I would love them to be two hours away and
two hundred dollars. That's a-that's a really bad part.
It's so far and sometimes-Yeah, I would love to see them twice a year or three times a year, but it's a lot of money.
That part, I don't, I don't like it that much. I don't like the idea of being so far away. A whole day of traveling,
changing planes. A lot of money. And since I'm a student, it's hard to save, one thousand dollars to get a ticket. And
I don't like to ask them for money, for a ticket. (ph)
COUNSELOR: Your parents.
PATIENT: They offer-they offer to give me money for a ticket and I say Oh, I'll just-we'll see. We'll ﬁgure it out. If I
need money, and I'm not able to save it, I'll ask you guys for money then. [0:11:09.2]
COUNSELOR: When-when you think about your family's economic status in Portugal, where - where do you
stand?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

3/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: I - well-they're not the richest people in Portugal, but economically we're in high class.
COUNSELOR: And has that been the case for as long as you can remember? Was there ever a change in economic
status?
PATIENT: I guess at the begin-my parents were-I guess there was a change. When we lived in Amora, the other city
where I was born, we had money but we didn't have a lot of money. Yeah, there was a change but it was not that big.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so pretty much you guys have always lived in a higher class (inaudible at 0:12:08.0).
PATIENT: Yeah. And that was another thing that when I-oh well, I went to a public college in Portugal so I got to
hang out with people from-like really, really poor people. I mean, not American poor - Portuguese poor. You know
that's-someone high class in the United States has a lot of money. Tons, a lot more money than someone in a higher
class in Portugal. And someone poor in Portugal is really, really poor. It's not like "Oh, I'll go run by McDonald's
because I don't have anything else."
Money to buy anything else, no. In Portugal, it's poor, poor. So it was like-it was like for me to be able to see how
the world is. And because I went to a private school, a Catholic private school. It was like a bubble. Everybody has
a car. Everybody talks three-can speak in three different languages. Everybody travels Europe and travels to Miami.
And you go out-and then you go to college and then it's like "Oh my God. There are people that don't have money
for lunch."
COUNSELOR: Sure. [0:13:23.7]
PATIENT: That was a hard, a hard thing for me. And - but I think learned and it was really good.
COUNSELOR: What was hard about it, like...?
PATIENT: The people didn't like me. They were rejecting me all the time. I was a really good student. I used to
study a lot. I think in my class, I was the only one having a car. That - I mean that's how-in the United States,
everybody has a car. Portugal, not everybody has a car. Cars are really expensive. People salaries are lower than
here.
So, for example, in my class I was the only one having a car and driving. Everybody has to take the bus and I was
driving to school. So from the ﬁrst day, they didn't like me because they saw I had like, you know like. And then
you can tell by the way people dress, the differences, from different class. [0:14:24.8]
I don't think here is bad. The middle class in the United States is really big. And in Portugal it is not, and the poor
class is really big. So people didn't like me. And I had really good grades. People hated me. They were saying how I
was paying professors for my grades.
COUNSELOR: Oh God. (ph) So how did that affect you? This was in high school, you said, high school?
PATIENT: College. In college.
COUNSELOR: College, okay.
PATIENT: Yeah, I went-after I graduated from high school, everybody was the same as me. Private school together,
everybody's the same. And then I go to college to a public school and so this public school, public college. You have
to apply taking an exam, and if you pass the exam, they - it's not like here. It's not like interviews and applications.
They just buy the thing-go and take an exam. And if you pass the exam, you'll get into school. They don't care who
you are, where you come from.
They don't care about anything. They just care that you are-from one thousand people that applied to the school,
maybe 20 or 100 or 200 get in. But since there, there's... so the high class in Lisbon usually go to two different
universities. Two private schools, two private universities. I decided I didn't want to go there. What I was-what I
wanted to do something related to chemistry and these schools were really bad in chemistry. So I said... [ 0:16:17.3]
COUNSELOR: Now did you have-in Portugal, I'm not sure how it is, but in your family, your culture. How much is
the decision to go to school, or the type of school, or what you choose to study. How much of that has to do with
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

4/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

your family inﬂuence, or how much inﬂuence does your family have?
PATIENT: I think they have a lot of inﬂuence because usually they're the ones who pay. In higher classes, or middle
class. I had a lot of friends. They were - they were paying by themselves and they-they'll say like, "If your parents
go to college and get education, they will have-they will have a lot of inﬂuence in your decision to go to college.
They will try to make you go to a good school and..."
COUNSELOR: What about in your case, how about your (inaudible at 0:17:09.8)?
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: When I said I wanted to go for something related to chemistry, my dad was really excited. He loves
chemistry, he loves math and biology. He's all about science. He was really excited. He was really happy and... He
just told me, "Just go for the best college. Where you can get that."
He was like, "I don't care-don't base your decision on other factors-in other departments or in friends. Try to base
your decision in the best school. If you want to do..." I don't know. "Whatever you want to study, just go for the
place." So that's why I went there. And I-and not a lot of people from my high school applied to this university
because they were really afraid of the contact with poor people.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:18:16.3)
PATIENT: So that's why they all go to private universities where they're-there are not enough scholarships in
Portugal. If you're a really good high school student here and you don't have money, you will ﬁnd a scholarship to
go to a-wherever. Not like that in Portugal. See you can keep-so if you have money, you go to a private school. But
if you don't, you have to go to a public, and try to get it.
COUNSELOR: So let me get this right. You chose not to go to a private school because they weren't good in
chemistry.
PATIENT: Yeah, they were not good in chemistry.
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: And people, all they did was party. So I was really afraid. I like to party a lot and I knew that if I were
there, I was not going to study at all. Just socialize. My dad, I have friends that were-spent all the how many years
just partying and not studying. Then it was a mess. I said, "I'm going for a good chemistry school or a pharmacy."
And, in a place where I know I'm not going to be partying all the time. I still have a lot of friends so I don't need to
be with them all day.
I need to focus on my studies. But it was weird because only ﬁve girls from my high school went to my university. It
was a-it was boys and girls, but none, any of the boys applied to this university, and only ﬁve of us went there of my
people that graduated in my class in high school. That-just to wrap up. That was good because I get to-I got to see
how different people were and it was bad because no one was like me at the beginning. But oh well, after ﬁve years,
they were like me.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so it took ﬁve years? [0:20:17.9]
PATIENT: I would say four years.
COUNSELOR: Really?
PATIENT: It took-the majority of the-I had my friends, I had ﬁve, six friends that were really good friends. But-and
then the circles that are drawn. So I used to invite all of them to my house to have lunch or whatever. (laughs) And it
was really fun. So the end, we were really-I had a lot of friends. But at the beginning, yeah, I didn't have any. They
all hated me.
COUNSELOR: How did you cope then, another time when you didn't have as many friends, andPATIENT: How did I, sorry?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

5/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Cope with that? You didn't have friends, and you thought that they hated you. And they were
treating you differently and some of those things. [0:21:01.4]
PATIENT: I didn't-I mean, I didn't. How do you say, like-I didn't talk to them. There was a lot of gossip. I was like,
ah, just forget about it. It's hard but I just cannot go and tell them, "I'm not like that."
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I just have to show them.
COUNSELOR: So I'm curious, Marta. In thinking about stress and how it relates to your life. How-what resources
do you use to cope with difﬁcult situations, difﬁcult times? You know, because you talk about a series of difﬁcult
situations, in your life.
PATIENT: What do I do? Well I usually go to therapy. Cry, and talk with my friends.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: That's why I cry so much. I always (laughs) focus on my feelings and I'm so bad. I cry with the movies, I
cry with everything. [0:22:00.7]
COUNSELOR: What's-what's bad about that?
PATIENT: No, I just-I just think it's funny. I cry, I mean, I cry all the time. There's-have you seen the TV
commercial about the cancer? The... what's it... the Susan G. Komen race? And you train? So they have the
commercial about it, and there were people saying-I'm going to start crying. "I've been doing it..." Or "I'm running
for my mother" or something like that. So everything time they show that commercial, I cry. I'm like, "Oh my God",
this cannot be true. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Why do you think you cry about them? [Or whatever makes you cry.] (ph)
PATIENT: Well, the fact that my mother had it. I guess that-I don't know, I cry for everything. I see a kid with-and
this has been forever. Every time I see a kid with Down's Syndrome, I cry. And if I see a TV commercial with kids
with Down's Syndrome, I cry. And this has been forever. I cry for - I don't know what. [0:23:17.8]
COUNSELOR: Cancer seems to be theme that I'm hearing, because you talked about your mom-she had breast
cancer. They were able to catch it?
PATIENT: Yeah, they were. Really...
COUNSELOR: Okay. So the cancer with your mom, and you wanted to study cancer or study more-were you
interested?
PATIENT: Yeah, but I don't think that-well, perhaps in my subconscious. But I don't - I just think that. I mean, I
don't want to study cancer because of my- a lot of-because, well yeah, a lot of people have it. But not because my
mother had it. I-oh well, how do you say it. But it's because it's really interesting and it's a difﬁcult thing. And I've
been in contact with it. I haven't been in contact with other different... yeah, illness. Yeah, I guess there has to be a
connection.
COUNSELOR: Maybe, think that through but just wanted to explore. Because you talked about another signiﬁcant
person who had cancer too. I was wondering (inaudible at 0:24:27.9)
PATIENT: Yeah, a lot of people. My granddad, my grandfather had bone cancer. My grandmother had can-I think
they-like a lot of people in my-my uncle died from cancer. A lot of people. I've met a lot of people who've died from
cancer.
COUNSELOR: How about your therapist? Did your therapist die from cancer?
PATIENT: She did. She died from cancer in the stomach, too.

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

6/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: There is something to explore because a lot of times, what happens is that the things that we
become interested in. There's something-there's something (ph) underneath our motivation for one. (ph)
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess-other decisions that haven't been. I was talking about coming here. Okay, the difference in
my social classes here and there, in Portugal.
COUNSELOR: So any other ways that you cope with thePATIENT: Ah, the stress.
COUNSELOR: The stress, yeah. [You said all different] (ph) PATIENT: Well, I eat a lot of chocolate. I'm a chocolate addict. [0:25:51.5]
COUNSELOR: Okay. A chocolate addict, you use that loosely, or have you been diagnosed as a...?
PATIENT: No, no, no. I mean I - I've been struggling with it. Oh, and here, you see all these candy stores.
(laughter)
PATIENT: But I've been like that all my life. I remember I've loved chocolate since I was... you know, there's people
that like can-hard candy, sugar candy. I love chocolate. So much. And here, oh.
COUNSELOR: So when you're stressed... (inaudible at 0:26:25.8)
PATIENT: Yeah and I guess... I been eating it a lot here. I gained 20 pounds since I came from Portugal.
COUNSELOR: Oh really.
PATIENT: Well-two things. Food here, really processed. I don't-like in Portugal, I didn't have to cook. There was a
lady in my house who cooked. So we cooked really well. She cooked really well. Delicious and always really
healthy. Nothing processed. There was always like-a little bit of rice. A lot of vegetables, meat and different stuff,
but - and a little bit of carbohydrates.
So I never had to worry about what I was buying for food and what I was eating and how many calories. That part
of my life was... Yeah, that part of my life was-somebody took care of it, so it was controlled and. There is a lot of
pressure about weight in Portugal. Like in Portugal, I would be fat.
COUNSELOR: Really, okay.
PATIENT: And I come here, it's like "Oh my God" I'm not fat. So this I really cool.
(laughter)
PATIENT: Yeah, so there's a lot of pressure in Portugal for people's weight and they always tell you how, "yeah,
you're fat." Not in a bad way, but "Oh, you have to diet." So it's a pain to go back every December, because after the
ﬁrst time, the winter, I ate a lot because I'm really cold. So I eat a lot of chocolate. And then shoo-I go, and so I go
there and they're like "You need to lose weight."
(laughter)
PATIENT: But that's how-that's how it is in Portugal. So I never care about my weight. I used to diet. I used to stop
eating candy or chocolate. So that was my diet. Like, "oh, I'm not going to eat chocolate for three weeks." And that
was like, aah, chocolate. But then I came here and I was in charge of my food, my groceries. Making food for
myself and I'd never had to cook before. So it's a mess. I've been trying to improve-and then in the school we get
lunches, with a lot of interesting people, like speakers and...
COUNSELOR: Brown bag lunches and things or... [0:28:54.5]
PATIENT: And also like journal clubs, and all they have is pizza. I used to eat pizza, let's say, once a month? You
know, nothing but.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

7/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:29:05.7)
PATIENT: American food in Portugal is really expensive. McDonald's is super expensive. So you'd never think,
"Oh, I'm going to eat McDonald's because it's cheap." Or "I never-there's not McDonald's around". Sometimes I
have three dollars. Well I'm going to go to one. There, it's really expensive. So it's cheaper to eat healthier food than
to eat...
COUNSELOR: Fast food.
PATIENT: Fast food and things that come, like in frozen bags in the supermarket are really expensive compared to
healthy food. So in your house, no one will ever-it's cheaper to buy meat and potatoes and rice, and pay someone to
do it than to buy all the frozen foods. Those boxes-there was a lot of good food. Good food comes in a box. Or like
the soup comes in a can. We don't have soups in a can.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay. [0:30:00.5]
PATIENT: Sometimes when you have the envelopes, like powder, you mix with milk or water.
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:30:10.0)
PATIENT: They usually make the soup-they just cook the carrots and the tomatoes. And then you get home at 7:00
and there's your dinner.
(laughter)
PATIENT: So that part has been a mess here. And I guess for a lot of people at-I have a lot of friends that they'd saycoming here, they gain weight. It's hard to - it's hard to... and your house, you have someone that takes care of your
things. Like in my house is Anita, and she's always like, "Oh, you need to eat this." or "Are you hungry?" or-she's
really taking... So you never care about it.
You never care about how many calories you eat or... People care about weight, but the good thing is that there's a
lot of good food. The bad part has been a mess here. And I never ate chips before. And here all I crave is tortilla
chips.
(laughter)
And the bread. The bread here is so good. And that's the problem. The food here tastes so good.
COUNSELOR: Tastes better? Or tastes good in some way?
PATIENT: Here? It is so good. Oh my God, the desserts here. And my lab mate-she bakes. And her way to relieve
the stress is bake.
COUNSELOR: Is baking. (laughs)
PATIENT: But she doesn't eat it. No no no. and she comes to the lab with this big smile. "Marta, I've made brownies
for you." And I'm like, "No, don't come with this." And she knows that I love dark chocolate. So she always puts
chocolate, dark chocolate garnish on the - on the these frostings and... So that part makes me a little bit, anxious.
And my ex-boyfriend was really about-"You're so fat. You need to lose weight." And I hated that.
COUNSELOR: How did that make you feel when he said you needed (inaudible at 0:32:14.3).
PATIENT: Oh, because he was fat too. That was the funny part. If someone who's really skinny tells me, "Marta,
you're fat." I'll just-"Ah, you're right. I'm eating a lot." But someone that's - is in the same condition. He lived in
Portugal and he came here. He gained weight here. He telling me that I was gaining a lot of weight. I was like, "I
mean, you don't have any right to tell me this." (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Right. So that upset you?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

8/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Yeah, I mean, yeah. I was like...
COUNSELOR: What, I mean what did you do about that? Or do about...
PATIENT: I broke up with him.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: But not about that. I mean, things were really bad. He didn't like me. And it was a good thing we broke
up.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:33:05.0)
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: I remember you telling me that.
PATIENT: It was hard. It was hard to be lonely because I started dating him after 15 days of coming to Whitehall.
So I was never alone in Whitehall. I was always with him. But I'm thinking about it, and that was the best decision
I've ever, sort of-it was hard, three weeks, four weeks, but now I'm happy. I don't need him. I don't need someone
that cannot love me, I'm sorry.
COUNSELOR: Deﬁnitely.
PATIENT: I think it was really good. And people that-people in my family's like, "Are you upset?" and I'm like,
"No." I was sad at the beginning, but now-I'm perfect with it.
COUNSELOR: What's... what's helped you bounce back the way that you have? Or to no longer be sad about it, to
be happy about it?
PATIENT: Right now, that I don't have to deal with him. It's really sad when you are with someone that-that shows
no interested, interest. I was there and he's like, "I cannot... I'm..." You know, how do you say. I'm a heavy load for
you. Feeling that someone doesn't like you because they have to...
COUNSELOR: Makes you feel burdensome? [0:34:32.1]
PATIENT: Yeah, and I was - I was trying a lot of things to... I don't know how to cook. There is a lot of girls that
know how to cook and how to bake. I'm not one of those, I'm sorry. (laughs) And he was always complaining about
the way I cooked or the way I dressed. I'm working a lot. I work. Sneakers, jeans, and t-shirt. I don't see any harm.
(ph) And he's always like, "Oh, look at the way you're dressed today."
But because-and with him that's a Portuguese cultural thing because people they'll take... They care a lot about the
way you look, the way you-the way you dress. If you're fat or not. If you have fancy shoes or not. And the
environment that we're in now. No one cares, it's perfect. I can focus on my assignments. I don't need to...
[0:35:27.2]
COUNSELOR: Was that true of, of other relationships you're in, where the guy would criticize you for whatever
reason?
PATIENT: In Portugal.
COUNSELOR: Uhm-hm, yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess, all guys are... I see my dad, and my dad is the same thing with my mom. All day, telling
her the shirt's too tight. But that's how - - that's why I tell you. That's a very Portuguese thing. I realize that I don't
have to deal with it anymore. And Jose was also trying to... Oh one day he told me he wanted us to live together, to
move into an apartment? So I was really like "Wooo!" and happy and excited about it, thinking perhaps in one year
we would be able to. And then he-two weeks later, he just fuck up. He was like, "I didn't say that."
And I was like, "What? You said that." And it's not a - because I didn't understand him. Because we speak the same.
We're from the same place. He's like, "No, I never said that. I said it would be cheaper if we lived together." And I'm
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

9/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

like, "No, you said that it would be good to live together." And it means... so he didn't want that. And he was
looking for jobs when he graduated from Michigan, from the Master's. And he never even said anything about...
like, "If I move away, what are we going to do?" He never cared.
He found a job in Whitehall. It was the only thing he found. Oh he found another one, in the middle of Ohio but it
paid less. So that's why he stayed in Whitehall. But he never think, thought about what we were going to do. Were
we going to... start, stop seeing each other.
COUNSELOR: And how long were you guys together? [0:37:35.9]
PATIENT: One and a half years.
COUNSELOR: So one and a half years that you were together. And how long-and or how far into the relationship
was he talking about moving in orPATIENT: No, just a couple months ago.
COUNSELOR: Oh okay.
PATIENT: One month ago.
COUNSELOR: Okay, okay.
PATIENT: Two months ago, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah, no, I mean...
COUNSELOR: Well it sounds that concerns you that he's graduating, he's not making any verbalizations or plans
about...
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: No no no no no. It was not a-it was not about making plans. Just like sit down and say, "Okay so if I
found a job somewhere else, we can try seeing still dating, or just stop dating." He never-It was like-it was not that
he w-"I don't want to get married. I need to get into school and graduate form school. I have ﬁve years in front of me
and I need to focus on that. My plans are not getting married. My plans are not... I just hated that he would say... he
would say something like "Let's move in together." And then he'd say "Look, I didn't say that."
COUNSELOR: "I didn't say that." [0:38:45.7]
PATIENT: Or the thing that he was looking for jobs and never even wanted to talk about it. Because I asked him,
"What are we going to do?" and he's like, "I don't want to talk about it."
COUNSELOR: He'll tell you he didn't want to talk about it.
PATIENT: No. And the other-and the other thing was
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:39:10.4)
PATIENT: Yeah, he never-he would have problems with his work. And he wouldn't, never say-and it's like, "What
is, what is wrong with you?" and he's like "I just have problems. I don't want to get involved. I don't want to get you
involved with it."
COUNSELOR: It seems like if you were an important part of his life...
PATIENT: No, I was not.
COUNSELOR: He would've included you or...
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

10/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Yeah, in his stakes (ph), he didn't. He was tired of dating me and he never told me. I had to go and ﬁnd
out in the e-mail.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So let me ask you this, Marta. What about your relationships before Jose, before coming to...
PATIENT: I had a boyfriend for a long time. For four years. And then I decided I didn't want to stay with him
anymore. I graduated from coll-I graduated and he was still.. he had one year left, or one and a half years left to
graduate. He was in another thing. He cheated on me a couple of times. And the last time he cheated on me, and I
tried to forgive him. Forgive him. And I couldn't. So that's why I broke up with him. Because I couldn't forgive him
about that. And I was not - we were in there forCOUNSELOR: Different things?
PATIENT: He was like-yeah, like cheating on me. (laughs) And I didn't want to have that for my life. So that's why I
broke up with him and after that I dated a couple of guys. Had fun. Party, and... But I... and I started dating someone
before I was going to come to Whitehall and then we stopped dating when I came here so.... But it was not like.
There was nothing serious in between my boyfriend from-that I dated while I was in college and here. [0:41:08.8]
COUNSELOR: And what was his name?
PATIENT: Joshua.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: J-O-S-H-U-A.
COUNSELOR: That's a long time to be in a relationship with someone-four years?
PATIENT: Yeah, we were. And we were one year together, then we broke up. Because he left me for another girl.
(laughs)
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And afterCOUNSELOR: You laugh about that, right?
PATIENT: Hm?
COUNSELOR: You laugh...
PATIENT: Oh, because I don't know if I would do it again. I think I was blind with me. I was-I really liked him for a
long time before he even started to... We were in the same high school. We were sitting-he was in... he used to sit
behind me. I was in love with him. And he never cared. (laughs) After a couple of - after a year he started-we started
dating and then he left me for another girl. Then I had a another boyfriend but then we came back together.
COUNSELOR: Whose idea was it to come back together?
PATIENT: His. Mine. I don't know. Both. Whatever. But I was still in love with him. I was hanging out with the
other guy, but I was still in love with him. And, yeah. So we were together for a year, then 8 months. A year but we
were not together and then for four years. And then I started dating a couple of guys and then I came to Michigan.
[0:42:52.7]
COUNSELOR: So how did you cope with the break up with Jose? How did you handle that?
PATIENT: Between Jose-no, after Jose or...?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: In these four weeks?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

11/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Yeah, how-how did you-not Jose, Joshua. Yeah, Joshua. How did you handle the break up? How did
it affect you.
PATIENT: I don't know. I broke up with so many guys before that. I had boyfriends before-were not for a long time
but... I don't know, the same way that I always do it. Hang out with my friends. Eat chocolate ice cream.
COUNSELOR: Okay. (inaudible at 0:43:40.2)
PATIENT: Then just- I mean. Wait for things to come. My problem with him is that we shared the same friends. So
that was hard. That was hard. And the last time(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:43:59.1) about that.
PATIENT: And it's still difﬁcult. Every time we see each other. I'm really good. I talk to him. I still talk to him, and
then-but the thing is since... Oh, and after - before coming to Whitehall we start, kind of dating again. So things end
up really weird. But the thing is, I would never introduce a guy to my girlfriends unless it's a serious boyfriend. And
he has never done the same thing.
COUNSELOR: Show (ph) you his friends. [0:44:36.3]
PATIENT: No no no no no. We have the same friends. And we were in the same class in high school. If he's dating a
girl, he will-he will not go out with the rest of the group with me. If I'm there. Now that I'm here, it doesn't carematter. But for example, I went back last December when he was dating a girl? And he never told me. It was like,
"Oh, what happened." So but he - if I am there, he will not take the girl. Or he would not go out with us. And it's the
same thing for me. And it's kind of like code in the group. In the group, like, because there were a lot of people who
were dating too. So it happens (crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: So you guys no longer hang out with the whole group. If you had a boyfriend, you wouldn't bring
him.
PATIENT: I was going to bring Jose.
COUNSELOR: Oh you were, you were! Okay.
PATIENT: So I told everyone, you guys are meeting him. They're all like, "What?" and I'm like, "Yes."
COUNSELOR: So you were going to break the code.
PATIENT: Yeah. He was important. No, yeah, I mean-Jose-Jose was really important. I thought he-we had a lot of
things in common and we were going to last for a long time. But then I realized: the guy doesn't like me. How are
we going to... I'm not happy. He doesn't love me. So what I'm doing here. But I am going - I was going to introduce
him to them, there. (ph) (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Did you think how Joshua was going to respond to that?
PATIENT: Oh, they're-they're-no no no. None of them was going to like. (laughs) That's how we all are. We never
like the person. After a couple of months, we like.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: One of my friends is-he was dating another girl. He's getting married in December. So last December, he
brought her. They live in Spain, so he brought her with him. And we met her. And we were like "Oh, we don't like
her." But, well, after a couple of weeks, yeah.
COUNSELOR: It seems like there's that loyalty to the... [0:46:53.3]

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

12/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: And it's bad. It's really bad, because then when it's your turn? They will not like your boyfriend. That
was on you. Yeah, oh well. I don't think-I think I did a... I took a good... made a good decision about not being with
Jose. I think. I don't think Jose was good. I was stressed. I was sad. I had a lot of anx-I was really anxious.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so a lot of - in a relationship where you felt stressed and sad.
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: I know, that has no sense.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:47:32.7)
PATIENT: And there are so many boys outside-out there. So I decided in a couple of weeks I'm going start-have
open mind for dating again. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: What's helped you. Why a couple of weeks?
PATIENT: I have two books that I need to read.
COUNSELOR: (laughs) Okay, so you're going to get your books read ﬁrst.
PATIENT: No, no, no. I've been reading a lot. I have been reading a long time. This amount of books. I read "The
Davinci Code" "Angels and Demons" and "Almost There". And there's a couple of books I want to read after that,
all about dating. No, you know, like I've never had plan to enjoy what-myself, here in Whitehall. Where I can say,
"Okay, some day I'm just going to sit down and read a book. I'm not going to drive to go - I'll do this with Jose. And
then I'm going to do these groceries and grocery shopping." It's my time.
COUNSELOR: Your time, sure.
PATIENT: I get to clean my house. My house is clean, my house... read books, cook-try to cook.
(audio gap)
PATIENT: Watching movies with them. I had a couple of friends and they always watch - what is that? "LOST"?
This year is great to them. I was always hanging out with Jose so I never had time to go and...
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: Enjoy your other relationships.
PATIENT: Sit down and talk for two hours. Watch this show and then talk. I've been liking my time. So-and I said
I'm not going to date someone that lives far away, four miles away from Whitehall. I've been saving a lot of money
in gas because I always had to drive there. He never..
COUNSELOR: He never came to - for you? [0:49:33.3]
PATIENT: No, because I had a roommate and he always said it was annoying for my roommate to come here. And I
was like, "Huh? That's weird." Sounds more like it's annoying for you to come.
COUNSELOR: Did you explain that to him? You said that him? Or were you-that's something you were thinking?
PATIENT: No, I told him all the time. It's not annoying for her. She understand. She understands that it's normal if I
got there a couple of weekends and you come here. You know, half and half.
COUNSELOR: There's some reciprocity here.
PATIENT: No, he stopped coming. If I always have plans with my friends, I just have-he's like, "Oh I don't feel like
driving to Whitehall." It's like, "Okay, Jose, I'll go pick you up and then I'll bring you back tomorrow." Because I
was feeling bad because everything.. Half of my friends don't' know him. Haven't met him before. A year and a half,
and they never met him. So I was trying to put him-make him go with me to all these dinners and potlucks. And he
was like-I was always in love or...
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

13/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: What do you think that was about? Did you ever have any thoughts about why he wasn't receptive
to being involved in your world?
PATIENT: I don't know and he's been always like that. Because even though we met Portuguese friends with Sara
that lives in Berkley, and I was talking to her. She just came back from a trip and I was talking to her. And I told her
what happened, she said, "Yeah, I never understood. He was always weird in that sense." They would invite him to
do stuff. Even before I came here. And he would always say, "No, I cannot." He didn't want to hang out with a
group of people. But he-no, but he had his friends and he used to hang out with his friends. A couple or... Yeah,
well.
COUNSELOR: Did you ever have any blaming thoughts? Or thoughts about something what you weren't doing?
PATIENT: No. I did a lot ofCOUNSELOR: You were in, pretty aware of (inaudible at 0:51:48.2) it sounds like.
PATIENT: I did a lot of stuff for him. things that I never did before. I mean, I don't have any-feeling about it. I'm
100 percent sure that if I didn't do things well, I'll try to make things better. You know in that moment, I don't have
regrets. No I mean I put a lot of things into that relationship. I was going to introduce him to my friends. (laughs) He
didn't want me-I.. yeah. His friends would come to Whitehall and he would introduce me. Hang out with me and
then.
PATIENT: But he wouldn't involve you in his world. (inaudible at 0:52:42.4) that's what you're talking about earlier.
Even with the interviewing or...
COUNSELOR: Or the work problems or the family or... Yeah, one day he was talking about something that... some
kind of typical Portuguese food that they make in his house. And it's like, "Oh!" I said like, "Oh, sounds delicious. I
would love to try it." And he's like, "Yeah." And he laughed. And I was like, "Jose, you should invite me." And he
was like, "Uh.. I don't know." And I was like, "What?"
COUNSELOR: Do you
PATIENT: And he was always thinking about... Okay, so I'm (inaudible at 0:53:23.4) just before I go. And that is
there is also this thing that he was saying that he always thought I wanted to get married with him. And I was like,
"No, I don't want to get married with anyone. I need to go to school and study for ﬁve years. I don't want to have a
husband. I don't have-I don't want to have responsibilities. I don't want to have to take-I don't want to have. I don't
want to have to take care of family."
And he was always saying how he wanted to get married, when he was 35, with a 25 year old woman. And I'm like,
"Ah." I don't know if we're going to be together, but that's not something I want to hear. What do you want to hear
that your boyfriend... I know it's confusing because I said I didn't want to get married but I never... I wanted to stay
with him and perhaps get-making things more serious in the future when I ﬁnish my PhD, but he was always saying
that he wanted to date all other-younger or get married with a younger person.
COUNSELOR: Any particular reason why?
PATIENT: Because his father told him that's what's he's (inaudible at 0:54:48.1) So he was like that. He used to... he
would always ask me for help. He was looking for-to buy a condo in Whitehall or buy furniture, whatever. He's like,
"h-this house, like this. I will be able to... to what, what is the word he said. Oh the girls will get crazy. And I'm like,
"What? I don't care-don't tell me these things."
COUNSELOR: Did you ever make of why he'd say those type of comments in your presence?
PATIENT: I guess he was never strong enough to tell me "I don't want to be with you." But I think by saying those
types of things was like his subconscious trying to tell me. That's what I think now. Before, I didn't know why he
was saying that crazy because he's Sagittarius, I don't know.
COUNSELOR: So on one hand, it's... he's making comments that seem to push you away, but he's not coming outhe didn't come out and actually say, "I don't want this relationship." And that's when you found the things on the
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

14/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Internet, here on the computer. And kind of made your own (inaudible at 0:56:13.8) Is it enough for me to be
aware...
PATIENT: Yeah, to tell myself, you don't have to ﬁght for a good relationship anymore. Just move on.
COUNSELOR: How did you ﬁnd yourself responding to that, Marta? I'm just curious.
PATIENT: The day I saw that?
COUNSELOR: He's pushing you away with these comments. Did you ﬁnd yourself distancing yourself or moving
(ph) closer?
PATIENT: No. Trying to show him that I was good. I was really good and I would just be more.. more there. Every
time he would say... I don't know. Those stupid comments, I would just be a better girlfriend.
COUNSELOR: What there is a time in your life where that relationship pattern mimicked other relationship patterns
in your life? Where somebody may have been pushing you away and you felt compelled to be a good person or the
better person to show them...
PATIENT: No. Not with the other boyfriends.
COUNSELOR: Think it was with any other male ﬁgures in your life? Where you felt on some level you may have
been pushed away but you had to prove that-you felt compelled. You have to really prove yourself that you were
this good person. You went above and beyond to try to keep that person or to show them that you're good.
[0:57:50.7]
PATIENT: I will think about it and tell you next time. But, eh. I will think about it.
COUNSELOR: Do you understand what I'm asking you?
PATIENT: Hm?
COUNSELOR: Do you understand what I'm asking you?
PATIENT: Yeah. Because usually you repeat those patterns with different people.
COUNSELOR: Especially if... if you're looking forward to couples, starting a new relationship or starting to date
again.
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: I'm just.. No, I'm just open to dating. Right now I don't' want to date anyone.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but that's something just to consider. To look at your relationship patterns and how the
dynamics work.
PATIENT: I don't know if I'm too crazy but with my lab mate, we decided it was really good to do a list of the things
I really don't like in guys. Because, yeah. To be able to avoid the things that happened. So I don't know if I'm too
crazy about it.
COUNSELOR: When you say you don't know if you're too crazy about it, what do you mean?
PATIENT: Because I haven't heard anyone that makes a list of the-like a grocery list.
COUNSELOR: What? No. I mean just like we'd be talking picking not people or schools and inanimate objects and
things, but like with schools or if you're looking for a certain thing, you may make a list of what you're looking for
or what you don't want and then we have some (inaudible at 0:59:15.9), you can evaluate that, based on your list. So
with relationships, I think that's a good idea to make a list of what you are looking, what you don't want ahead of
time. Like without being in a relationship, without being with anybody.
PATIENT: That's what I'm doing.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

15/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Right now when you're objective. You know, and kind of...
PATIENT: and I don't' know if that's different with women and Portugal and here. But when I come here, I saw that
all my friends, they have a type of guy. Oh, I want to date tall guys. I have Asian guys or black guys or white guys.
They have to be over 5'11. And all my friends are like that. Or they have to be in grad school or they have to be
working. Different types of things so they have to be muscular or have to skinny or like bald guys. You know, like
bald.
And I was like "You know, we don't do that." And I think that even though if things don't happen, I think that's pro
liberating. When you're the one... Portugal is like a meat market. You're there, and the guy picks you up. Well, not
picks you up but he's the one who decides you're good. You decide if you like him or not but you don't have the
standards. If you look at my boyfriends, it's like tall, short, dark skin, white, long, blond, blue-eyed. Well, all sorts of
different types. Different engineers, biologist. All these different things.
COUNSELOR: What about the qualities? Because I think what you're describing physical qualities and physical
traits, right? But what about the qualities, of the way that they treat you or are there any common things? (ph)
PATIENT: I guess those things, yeah. I guess about the way they treat you. Yeah, of course. I wouldn't date a guy
that... No, but I don't have any stan-I know when someone is good or someone is not. But I don't have standards. But
I don't know, it's like I see people here and they have standards. Oh if the guy doesn't open my door, I just don't' date
him. Or one of my friends, if the guy smokes, I'm not going to date a guy. But I just see that they're-they look so
independent and they look like they're the ones who choose. And I'm just like, well, that's not like that in Portugal.
COUNSELOR: All right, the man chooses. Because you still have a choice.
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Yeah, of course, I mean, yeah - it's like aCOUNSELOR: (inaudible at 1:02:05.3) be chosen, I guess. (laughs)
PATIENT: No no no no. But I mean like... if you've ever heard the girls talking aboutCOUNSELOR: (inaudible at 1:02:11.2) you're still, and you don't' do the chasing.
PATIENT: I guess I did. No, you know like-what I mean is you don't have the list. The list of the things you like or
you don't like.
COUNSELOR: So how do you judge if you... if a guy approaches you, like saying... If a guy approaches you and
says, "You're good, I want to be with you." How do you..?
PATIENT: I would say I... if you have some kind of attraction for the guy. But it's just-I see that here, that people
have all these parameters. It's like a binary list. Has it, doesn't have. Has it, doesn't have. There's no "Well, if you
like him."
COUNSELOR: So how do you think creating this list will be beneﬁcial or not.
PATIENT: I just [have to write one.] (ph)
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: No no no, but I think about that they...for example, I meant I don't' want to date someone that lives in
another city. I don't' want to commute to Detroit every weekend. Or having the same ﬁght about commuting. He
doesn't' want to hang out with my friends. Or something like that. I want someone that... wants to hang out with me,
too. And my friends.
PATIENT: So that would be something that you'd be looking for, right? Someone who shows an interest in you.
[1:03:39.9]
COUNSELOR: And that's a cultural thing, too. It's... in my generation, I don't know if that's (inaudible at
1:03:48.5), guys that are a little bit older than me are... You always see that there's a group of guys and the girls that
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

16/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

they're dating. And they have a couple of friends that... you always hang out with your boyfriend and their friends.
COUNSELOR: And not...
PATIENT: It doesn't happen to be like I told you, my friends are very special. We ﬁght a lot about the other girls or
boys that come into the group. But this is how usually it is in Portugal. So that's perhaps Jose, too. That's how it is.
COUNSELOR: So you're supposed to hang out with his friends.
PATIENT: And then you're supposed to friends with their other girlfriends.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay.
PATIENT: You see, like...
COUNSELOR: Okay, it's something that's expected.
PATIENT: And then one of them breaks up with the girl. The girl leaves. There comes some other. The group is still
the same. And there. Yeah. So that's a cultural thing. But yeah, I don't want anyone like that.
COUNSELOR: Okay, well, you know-it's important for you to be at peace about the person you're with, because
you're the person who (laughs) has to be with them.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Thank you for sharing so much as you did.
PATIENT: Thank you very much
COUNSELOR: It's deﬁnitely helpful to give me some perspective. Because here you are, two cultures. Or you have
your own culture, and the in (ph) culture. Then it helps me understand how... How it is-it just helps me understand
you better to see how your viewpoint is in the two cultures. So you told me a lot of that information.
PATIENT: Thanks.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Did you want to come back next week?
PATIENT: But the only one I'm going to be here is Friday. Can you do it on Friday?
COUNSELOR: You won't be here Wednesday? You won't be here-but you'll be (inaudible at 1:05:46.8) Friday?
PATIENT: Yeah, the only day I'm going to be here is on Friday. Because I'm leaving on a Sunday and coming back
on Thursday night.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Is that going to be okay for you to come on Friday?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Friday the third.
COUNSELOR: Yep, the third. Let's do noon.
PATIENT: Do I have to go and ﬁll out the application?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, (inaudible at 1:06:10.0).
PATIENT: (inaudible 1:06:13.8)
COUNSELOR: This isn't my card, ﬁrst of all. I'll (ph) write your appointment on it.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

17/18

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: So let me take you up front and we'll show you what you need to do.
PATIENT: Okay, thank you very much.
END TRANSCRIPT

back to top
Copyright © 2008 by Alexander Street Press, LLC • About | Help | Terms of Use

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094421

18/18

