8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Home
Browse
Browse All Works
Browse Client Narratives
Browse Reference
Browse Session Transcripts
Browse Subjects
Browse Symptoms
Browse Therapies
Search
Help
All Works  »  Full Text

  

GO

Search:

Full Text
Session 1: Client has come to therapy because she is under a lot of pressure to get into graduate school, in Client
405: Heterosexual single, female between 21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety, (2006), pp. 1-15
 show metadata

  

Session 1: Client has come to therapy because she is under a lot of pressure to get into graduate school

   Next »

TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: October 12th, Marta Quinn. Therapist: Betty Johnson. First counsel.
(audio gap)
COUNSELOR: This and basically we can start just by telling me a little bit about yourself. What is it important for
me to know about you.
PATIENT: Okay, so. I cry... (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Oh that's okay. There's plenty of Kleenex there. It's deﬁnitely okay. What are your tears about right
now?
PATIENT: It's always like this.
COUNSELOR: It's okay.
PATIENT: Every time I start... it's like-but it's okay.
COUNSELOR: It's okay.
PATIENT: Okay, so...
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094420

1/11

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Just take some deep breaths and some...
PATIENT: (cries)
COUNSELOR: It seems like you're in a lot of pain?
PATIENT: No, no, it's just COUNSELOR: No pain?
PATIENT: Sex?
COUNSELOR: Stress.
PATIENT: Stress. Okay.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So thing are a little bit overwhelming or... [0:01:38.5]
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Okay, so I'm from Portugal. And I moved to Whitehall in March. It was March 2005, yeah, last year. So
I've been here for one and a half years. I work as a researcher at a college pharmacy. And I-basically I came to
Whitehall-I accepted a job. My boss, he's from Portugal, and he was recruiting people there to work in the labs, like
technicians and pharmacists. I came to work with him and always looking for-to do a PhD. I knew if I came here
and worked here, and had the experience, I could - - it would be really easy to do.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: To do a PhD. I am doing that. I am applying to schools right now. And that's one of the reasons I wanted
to come here this time. It's a lot of stress, writing the...
COUNSELOR: Statements...
PATIENT: The statements. Taking the exams. Like the GR-well I already took the GRE and the TOEFL but it was a
lot of stress. I studied for a whole year. And I took it. And it was not good. The English part sucked. It was really
bad, but oh well. I already took it twice-twice, so I'm not going to take it again. And my boss said it didn't matter.
Like my TOEFL, the English was - the TOEFL was good, but the English part (inaudible at 0:03:29.7) it was not
good. And the professors there, they know me. He said, "It doesn't matter." They know that I can COUNSELOR: That you're competent...
PATIENT: Express my feel-what I think and I understand them. So he said it doesn't care-it doesn't care the GRE
well. Right now I'm writing the statements and looking for people to give me the recommendation letters and ﬁlling
out everything. That's one of the reasons I wanted to came, I wanted to come here because it's a lot of stress and
then I get rejections from other schools. How every process is, you get accepted to some schools until their...
COUNSELOR: And some you don't.
PATIENT: You don't.
COUNSELOR: And so how to deal with that...
PATIENT: Yeah.
PATIENT: Process. You're looking for support in that area? Support in- [0:04:28.5]
(crosstalk)

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094420

2/11

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: No, in everything but that was one of the things that made me quite uncomfortable. Back in college,
in my house everywhere I was way better than the rest. So when you come here and realize, "Oh my God. Everyone
here is really good." And then you're not the best.
So you end up being quite-yeah, and I'm the good girl in the house. My brother is the one that does all the bad things
and I never felt like I was not the best one. So I knew that here and of course everyone is really good at what they do
and they have a lot of experience The people that apply to the programs are really good so I was really very proud of
that. And that's another thing-suddenly you stop being the best one and you're just another one from the boat. (ph)
So that's hard. I have to- and then...
PATIENT: I deﬁnitely understand that because you come from one area or era in your life where you were the
shining star, so to speak.
COUNSELOR: And then you comePATIENT: And then you come here, it's like all these other shining stars-does my light - my star isn't shining as
much. And so yeah, I think especially doctoral programs when you apply a lot of people feel that way. It's
understandable.
COUNSELOR: I have friends that I know are citizens. And they're the same-"My God, I feel like I'm stupid. I'm not
good. I'm-I cannot even say what I'm thinking. Nobody understands what I'm thinking. So I understood that-it was
awful at the beginning. But I understood that it happens to everyone once you get to PhD - programs are. [0:06:27.8]
PATIENT: But it [still doesn't] - (ph) there are a lot of people are going through it, it still doesn't take away from
how it feels. Your feeling is deﬁnitely real and I'm sure that was deﬁnitely and still be an adjustment.
COUNSELOR: That's how I feel. That and-the fact that being really far away from your family. (cries)
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: That makes me really sad.
PATIENT: Deﬁnitely.
COUNSELOR: Who are your family? Who's in Portugal?
PATIENT: My mom, my dad. My brother is in Australia, so he's far away too.
COUNSELOR: That has to be tough.
PATIENT: Yeah. And the other thing is-I don't know why I'm crying so much. I always cry a lot.
COUNSELOR: That's okay. Tears are... you know, you're human.
PATIENT: And the other thing is, in Portugal, I lived in the capital city. When you start college, you don't have to
move away because I really-I lived right in the city and then go to school. It's a really centralized country. The good
colleges are in the same area where you live. And usually people that live in Lisbon, the capital city, we don't have
to move up from our house. So of course it's the ﬁrst time I live away from my parents. [0:07:55.4}
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: By myself, I have to take care of - when you live with your parents, even though you make money, you
have dinner there. That's another thing. Living by myself.
COUNSELOR: You live by yourself?
PATIENT: No, I have-I have a roommate.
COUNSELOR: Okay, well living by yourself meaning you're away from your family and [all the separation] (ph).
(crosstalk)
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094420

3/11

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: I have to take care of everything. Cleaning...
COUNSELOR: Certain responsibilities.
PATIENT: Yeah, and grocery shopping. I've never had to do that before. Now it's better-now I deal with it. But real
hard.
COUNSELOR: So is that a part of your stress, having to do so much that you're not used to doing? Taking care of
your own?
PATIENT: No, it's more like... the stress (inaudible at 0:08:44.5). Like what, like feeling? Like you depend on your
own? But that's getting better, but it was worse, living here. No but now I mean-I used to and now I'm starting to
enjoy it and to enjoy... that but well, it's hard. And the plans (ph) and everything. That's hard too.
COUNSELOR: Deﬁnitely a little a bit about that area when you say (inaudible at 0:09:16.9) that's hard too.
PATIENT: No, I mean - And then all my friends in Portugal they are the same since-the schools there. I went to a
private school. Schools there - You started your school with the same people that you graduate. We don't get-we
don't have different school. We don't have middle school and high school, and junior high. We have a whole school.
So you start with the same people since you are four years old and then you graduate with them when you are 18.
COUNSELOR: Wow.
PATIENT: So you end up making really good friends.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: Or really good enemies.
(laughter)
COUNSELOR: Either way, it can work out.
PATIENT: Yeah, quite well. So we are really close together, with them. I have ﬁve or six people that I really-I'm
really really close with.
COUNSELOR: Do you have any contact with them now?
PATIENT: Yeah, one of them lives in Houston The other one, New York. But the four-the other four live in Lisbon.
So we e-mail, with messenger, the skype the-you can have contact with them. You see them in the web camera.
COUNSELOR: But it's nothing like being face to face and being able to hang out and do things. That's what's yourthere's emotion missing?
PATIENT: That's what I am missing. And I of course (ph)-oh well. So I came here, and I have really good friends,
but they're all graduated already. Or they're-it's their last year in school. Or they're post-docs so they stay here for
three years. So now they're starting to leave, to graduate.
Or they're really busy so they never have time. "Let's go out for a coffee." "No, I don't have time." Or "Let's go out
this weekend and then have dinner." "No, I don't have time." And I mean-I would be in the same situation, if they're
PhD, they're going to graduate. They like to...
COUNSELOR: To handle time differently. (ph)
PATIENT: Yeah and I think this society is more "We have to work; we have to do a lot of things." And well-in
Portugal, it's not like that. PeopleCOUNSELOR: Relationships are more important or... [0:11:27.4]
PATIENT: Yeah, and work is just not as important as here. People don't work 80 hours a week. I have to work - my
boss works 60 hours and he pretends me to work 60 hours. Which at the beginning was awful. But then, everybody's
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094420

4/11

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

working 60, 70 hours a week. You end up working.
COUNSELOR: And that has to be-so not only do you have an adjustment from being the good girl, the one who has
been better, then coming here and everyone else is great too.
PATIENT: But they also work harder than you and they...
COUNSELOR: But then there's this [adjustment to] (ph) where in your culture, in your culture, where you're from,
relationships and spending time is more important than work and having to adjust to this American culture where
work isPATIENT: No one has even time for lunch. In Portugal, having lunch is a really important thing. I used to go out for
lunch with my friends. My work there? You used to go-you go out and you have one and a half hours, two hours of
lunch and nobody looks at you. But here when you have to give all these reports to your boss or... So no, and people
have lunch in front of their computer which makes me-for me that's really bad. That's the opposite ofCOUNSELOR: Everything that you probably know.
PATIENT: So it's hard. Hard like other culture of things. Here, no one has time. And...
COUNSELOR: Have you, at all, tried to ﬁnd friends who are from Portugal or ﬁnd people who are from cultures
that have...
PATIENT: Oh, sorry.
COUNSELOR: That's okay. You can connect with..?
PATIENT: I had a lot of friends from Portugal, even-I even had a boyfriend. I broke up with him two weeks ago
which was also, another reason. They all graduate. You know how the population in Whitehall is very - a lot of
people come, but a lot of people leave and it's rotating (ph). And I mean... there are not a lot of people from Portugal
are there. I know eight people from Portugal in whole Whitehall. [0:13:52.0]
And, that part is really difﬁcult. And I don't know, the relationships-and I guess it's because of their-people here are
so independent. The relationships between two people, I mean-You have, okay. To hang out with your friends in
Portugal, you don't have to do any plans. You just hang out. Either you call another, it's like "What are you doing?"
"Nothing." "You want to come and watch TV?" You would do that there. But here you either have to plan to go for
dinner or to go watch a movie. Everything has to be planned.
COUNSELOR: To be so scheduled.
PATIENT: And I'm from the culture where-of course, we're from third world. Everything is disorganized. So having
such a schedule. I have to plan my weekends two months in advance and I'm like, what? I just want to enjoy my
weekends. Then if I want to do any plans, two months in advance. So that - if you want to do something, you have
to plan it two months in advance. Otherwise people will not have time to hang out with you. So that... [0:15:01.2]
COUNSELOR: That has to be frustrating.
PATIENT: Yeah, that-I mean, it's really weird. But oh well.
COUNSELOR: So how is this affecting you, Marta, when you talk about adjusting to the-I mean the stress or
applying to these doctoral programs, fearing a rejection, dealing with the different cultural shocks of different
cultural adjustments. Not having a support, being away from your family. How's it-how does it impact you on a dayto-day?
PATIENT: I think it's - oh how does it affect me?
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: No I just-I don't feel happy. (ph) I enjoy a lot now. I enjoy my work a lot and I have fun at work. But then
sometimes you're-no, I don't know, you feel lonely and sad. I - like when, not that much, but let's say I called three
weeks ago, the anxiety I was feeling. My friend from New York, he called me (inaudible at 0:16:17.5) and he was
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094420

5/11

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

like, "Oh, you should come to New York." I realize, I've never been like that, but now I-I don't to ﬂy, I don't want
to... I'm afraid of ﬂying. (cries) I don't want to take another ﬂight. I think I had a lot of ﬂights this year. I went to
different places. I don't enjoy them at all.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so now it's some type of some - the start of some anxiety you're [responding to] (ph).
PATIENT: And now-I used to not be worried about secure-in Portugal we have security problems. But I never felt
insecure. But then I come to Whitehall, which is like-there's nothing happens here. It's really secure.
COUNSELOR: Safe.
PATIENT: I feel like-yeah, it's really safe. And then I come here and I feel like I don't want to walk along. And
something happened last year that someone was staring through my window.
COUNSELOR: Oh wow. [0:17:16.0]
PATIENT: And I don't know if they were trying to come into my bedroom or-but they were just there.
COUNSELOR: Was it a male, or could you (inaudible at 0:17:25.4).
PATIENT: Yeah, I couldn't see him. I just saw someone was watching me change, through the window. So I was
like-that never happened before and I live on the second ﬂoor. So this person walk up through the-what is the name?
The ﬁre...?
COUNSELOR: Fire escape.
PATIENT: Fire escape and it wasn't watching.
COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: That was this-I feel so insecure.
COUNSELOR: Sure. I would imagine you would!
PATIENT: And then, it's because of this. He was-I don't know. And it was a really crappy house so the windows
were really easy to open. So the police came and they were saying that the guy was following me. So they start to
say all these things. So I got really-I don't know. At the beginning I just thought it was someone watching. You
know, look COUNSELOR: You just thought it was somebody peeking in your window. And then come to ﬁnd out, this guy was
following you?
PATIENT: Yes. I don't think he was following me. I don't even want to think that. I just think that it randomly
happened. That the guy saw someone changed. And decided to go up. There are crazy people here. So that affected
me a lot. [0:18:33.0]
COUNSELOR: That's terrible that you have to experience that.
PATIENT: Yeah, I changed to a... like a safer place, I think. At least there's no ﬁre escape in my window.
COUNSELOR: Did - I mean, you had a roommate at that time?
PATIENT: Yeah. She was not in the house. She was outside.
COUNSELOR: So you were by yourself? Who are some of your roommates now?
PATIENT: My roommate is one of my friends from the college pharmacy. She's a PhD student. She's really
independent so... For me to live with her is perfect. She's really organized. She's really clean. She does everything. I
used to have problems with my old roommate because she was really messy. She was from Portugal. And she was
really messy. And she got married. And she brought a husband home and I'm like "I don't want to live with a
husband, with a couple."
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094420

6/11

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Oh! (laughs) Did she talk to you before she [moved him in] (ph)?
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: She said it was going to be temporary but...
COUNSELOR: [Oh I get it.] (ph)
PATIENT: It ended up being a whole year but oh well.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: No I have all-now it's - everything is good. But yeah, I'm lonely. And since I broke up with my
boyfriend, so... it's - I'm - I feel more like that.
COUNSELOR: And how long ago-what's your ex-boyfriend's name?
PATIENT: My ex-boyfriend's name? Jose.
COUNSELOR: Jose.
PATIENT: And he's from Portugal and he came to Whitehall to do the math with. (ph)
COUNSELOR: He's in engineering? Okay. And how long were you and...
PATIENT: We were together for one and half-one year and ﬁve months. We started dating right after I got here.
After a month. I got here, we started dating. It was-it was really nice because it was someone from your same
culture that understands the language. You don't have to think in English because it's annoying to him to think in
English. Say everything you need and... so I-it was not as bad. I don't know. At the end, I was not happy. He was not
happy. He was - you can tell when someone is not happy in a relationship. [0:20:43.8]
COUNSELOR: How could you tell in this relationship?
PATIENT: He didn't care that much. He always used to say that I needed a lot of love and a lot of attention, more
than whatever he could give me. He was tired. He didn't want to hang out with me. And he doesn't-he moved to
Concord, so he lives in Concord. He's been living there since February. And we used to see each other at least onceand he worked in Whitehall, so he commutes here every day.
So we used to see each other at least twice a week and it ended up being one day a week, during the weekend. He
used to hang out with his friends a lot and I don't know-he didn't want to be in a relationship. And I could feel it. So
I did something really bad. I was using his computer at his house. He was sleeping because had a hangover-is that
how you say it? Hangover. Okay.
So I was using his computer and then-well I was not (ph)-when I called here and asked for the appointment, I was
feeling really bad. I was still with him, but things were really bad. And it's not like it's explicit bad, but it's just likeyou can feel it.
COUNSELOR: You can feel it. [0:22:05.6]
PATIENT: It had this-the sensation that something is not good. So that weekend I went to his house and I was using
his computer. And then this conver-this conversation with his sister. She pops out in the messenger. And there's this
conversation with her. I knew something was not good. I thought he was dating someone else, he was cheating on
me? So I was like I have to ﬁnd this out, because I'm going to get crazy about it.
So I look into the conversation with his sister and he's like "Oh yeah, I'm really tired of Marta and I don't know how
to - how to break up with her. And I'm really tired. I don't want to be with her anymore." So it was really bad. But
the good thing is like - I kind of like-because at the beginning I felt like-when I started feeling that the relationship
was not good. I was like, "I'm just imagining this. I must be crazy. I'm under a lot of stress, and anxiety. I'm starting
to imagine things." Because he never told me, "I'm not happy" or "I want to have a time." He never said anything. It
was just like...
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094420

7/11

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: "Or maybe it's just me and this isn't real (ph)"
PATIENT: So that was good because I knew that there was not-it was not in my head. It was real. He didn't-he was
not happy with me either. So, the next day I told him, we need to take a time (ph), break up and think about things.
And think about if we want to be together or not. And I never tell him thatCOUNSELOR: That you saw that.
PATIENT: Yeah, that was not good. But at least it gave me-what is it theCOUNSELOR: Conﬁrmation that you were...
PATIENT: Yeah, the clue that something was...
COUNSELOR: Right. Because it's one thing to kind of feel and wonder, "Is it just me? I'm under a lot of stress.
Maybe I'm just imagining it." [0:24:04.2]
PATIENT: And I probably was - well-it might be like I was under a lot of stress, so I kind of like-he was unhappy
with it, but oh well. Yeah, and he was-I remember that all the time, he was telling me that he couldn't give me all the
love that I wanted. He couldn't give me-yeah-like he-I don't know how to say it in the English language-he couldn't
replace all the love that I used to have from my family, my friends. Everyone in Portugal, and he could not be all of
it, so. (cries)
COUNSELOR: Okay, sure. And that must have been really difﬁcult for you to - to hear. Here, you really like the
guy, you're enjoying your time with him, especially without having support from your family, you [found someone]
(ph) from your culture and you guys are getting along. And you want somebody to spend your time with. And then
to hear that he can't love you the way that you would like to, that makes youPATIENT: Yeah, but I - that's-Yeah but that's - I mean, this-it happened what, two weekends ago or something and
now I feel like saying "Well, if he cannot give me all the love, I shouldn't be with him. Because I shouldn't be with
someone that is not able." And I was his ﬁrst girlfriend. He always had a-he used to be the like - is that the player?
That they call it?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, he had a lot of...?
PATIENT: He went to college in Louisiana and then he moved here for like-so-even though he's from Portugal, he's
really adapted. He enjoys a lot of things by himself, doing all these things. He used to love dating a lot of girls. So
then I came and he's like, "I don't understand how you trapped me."
Well, as a joke, he was telling me this. He never had a girlfriend, so I was the ﬁrst one. And I think he - he I mean yeah, he, it's difﬁcult, like the ﬁrst relation-serious relationship you have for more than three months or four months.
It's hard. I-well-so. So yeah, so I'd rather be alone and enjoy my own time.
COUNSELOR: You'd rather be alone? [0:26:32.8]
PATIENT: Than with him.
COUNSELOR: Okay, than with him. Okay.
PATIENT: I mean I don't want to - I don't want to be with someone that is not able to love me or-that thinks I'm a
heavy load for him. And, he also has a really low-what is it-what he sees in women is women are bad. Women in
our culture in Portugal. We are - since it's-there's a lot of machismo, is that how you say it in English?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, machismo.
PATIENT: So women used to be-no, women are really manipulated. We grow up and we see how our mothers-they
do all these things because they can not be strong and say, "We don't want this" so they have to manipulate the
whole situation and. Yeah. I think that's how it is. You cannot be a strong woman. You have to be like "Ah" like
smile to whatever your husband says. But so to be able to do whatever you want, you have to manipulate your
husband.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094420

8/11

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

So that's how a lot of the women in Portugal are. So instead of ﬁghting, you just kind of let your husband pretend
that it's - everything that he says is right. "We're doing this house." "Whatever, you say." But it's not like that. They
would manipulate the guy. And that's how-that's how they teach you. Just make him-let him pretend-just pretend
that he is the one in charge and then you do everything. So Jose used to say that women are like-and his mom is
really like that because she doesn't - - my mom is more liberal.
My mom is younger and she works. And she's - she always had her money and she always used to do - of course
with my father-but she always was in charge of ﬁnances in my house and things like that. So my mom is a really
strong person in my family. And in his family, it was his dad. His mom never worked, always cooked and she
doesn't even have - she doesn't have any idea what she-she just does whatever the father says.
So I come from a house where my mom is-so the woman-how do you say this? Image is really strong. She-even
though my dad makes more money than my mom. My mom is really-she takes a lot of economic decisions.
Decisions about what- which school we go, and we talk to her. And my dad was more quiet and passive. And my
mom was more active. And his family is the opposite. And for him it was really shocking. He's like-he was-he washe was not very comfort-how do you say that? He always used to be really, really shocked when I used to make
decisions. [0:29:54.2}
COUNSELOR: He was caught off guard, probably.
PATIENT: Like what?
COUNSELOR: He was probably caught off guard?
PATIENT: Yeah, he's used to-he's the one who makes decisions. And the guys in his house are the ones that make a
lot of money. So whenever, every time I just-"Let's go and hang out with my friends." And he's like, "No, I don't
want to." "Okay, I will just go with them." I would really enjoy we could hang out and do my plans sometimes
because we always do yours. He wasn't-he was really shocked. "Why are you telling me to do whatever you want?"
And he used to-he has told his family that I was really bossy and I used to tell him what to do and what not to do.
And he's really bossy too-so we wereCOUNSELOR: Clashing sometimes, sure.
PATIENT: A lot of conﬂict. [0:30:45.9]
COUNSELOR: So part of the break up may have had to do with-when you said, when you say that you were - he
thought you were a burden or needed too much attention.
(audio gap)
COUNSELOR: Right, so maybe that wasn't partPATIENT: Yeah, and I'm really wealthy. (ph) And my ex-boyfriend he used to be-I'd call him and he'd say, "Yes" to
everything. That was something I never had an experience with, so that was really a shock for me.
COUNSELOR: Okay, Marta, we've come to the end of our time today. And you've shared a whole lot of
information. I didn't get a chance to write everything down. That's why - actually I'm happy that we have the tape.
(laughs) The tape - I can go back and hear.
PATIENT: I - I talk a lot.
COUNSELOR: No, but it's all good. And I know, and I hope-you seem a little lighter (ph) than how you presented
when you ﬁrst came into the room. And I'm not sure if talking about some of this stuff is-if that was helpful to you
or not?
PATIENT: Yeah, it's really... [0:31:56.2]
COUNSELOR: Okay, yeah. And so I deﬁnitely want to continue learning about you and helping you. This is a lot
that you had to put up with in such a short amount of time. That I could see why the tears are there, and you feel
stressed and overwhelmed. I deﬁnitely want to help you with those things. Okay? So this is what I'm proposing, and
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094420

9/11

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

you can let me know what you think. We can set up a second appointment for next week. Are you interested in
doing that? Would you want to come twice next week? Or once, next week.
PATIENT: Once, because next week I have two meetings and a poster (ph) day and...
COUNSELOR: A lot going on. (laughs) Let's do that, let's set up a session for next week and we can continue our
discussion. Does this time work out?
PATIENT: Can it be a little bit- I don't know, it's okay.
COUNSELOR: What?
PATIENT: A little bit later, either like 5:00 or 6:00 or-but it's okay, I mean.
COUNSELOR: If 4:00 is okay, we can do it okay. I have a 6:00 already and we may be able to move you to 5:00.
PATIENT: No but just-for-it's okay.
COUNSELOR: Are you sure? Because I don't want to conﬂict with any of your other scheduling.
PATIENT: No, no-I have to make some-next is 19?
COUNSELOR: Right, in fact the 19th I have something going on that is taking me out of town. So that I probably
won't be able to see you until 5:00 anyway on the 19th.
PATIENT: Okay, what about-like that day after, the Friday?
COUNSELOR: Fridays I'm not in the ofﬁce. Typically, let's see- I'm here on Wednesdays and Thursdays.
PATIENT: Okay, okay.
COUNSELOR: So we could do the 19th at 5:00.
PATIENT: Okay, sounds good.
COUNSELOR: Is that okay?
PATIENT: Uhm-hm.
COUNSELOR: Now let me just ask you this before we go. I know you talk about feeling lonely and feeling sad.
And just wanted to know, have you had any thoughts of hurting yourself?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Or harming yourself? Any-because sometimes when people feel lonely and sad, they think about
how life would be if they weren't here.
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Has that ever crossed your mind?
PATIENT: No, don't worry.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:34:52.2) Has it ever crossed your mind before? Have you ever thought about s PATIENT: Yeah, but a long time ago, and that's why I started to go to therapy. I was 14. I went to therapy for, I
guess, like four or ﬁve years. And then my therapist became ill. She had renal failure, so it was really bad.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: Oh well. But I started going to someone else. And, yeah. And then I came here. Yeah, and the last three
years I went to therapy-is what, is because (inaudible at 0:35:26.5). My brother-he isn't-he does drugs (ph). Is that
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094420

10/11

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

the way you say it? So there was a lot of conﬂict in my house. And I used to be the only one who'd go to the
therapist because he was doing drugs. I mean, for me, it's not awful. I enjoy it. I like being able to tell someone why
it's happening.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Okay, so, therapy from your culture? Is it acceptable to see a therapist?
PATIENT: Yeah, at least-I don't know if in other cities in Portugal and for other people? But from the city I'm from,
from the social group that I'm from, yeah, so. No, I mean I spend my-all adolescence going twice to therapy, like
twice a week. And everybody in my school used to do it. [0:36:15.6]
COUNSELOR: Okay, okay. Because I know some cultures don'tPATIENT: I don't know if for here-why here is not that popular.
COUNSELOR: Does your roommate know that you're seeking help now?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah, I told her I was going-I called. I don't know if I told I had the appointment today, but.
COUNSELOR: Now what's your roommate's name?
PATIENT: Diana.
COUNSELOR: Diana. Okay. Okay so you haven't had thoughts of harming yourself?
PATIENT: No, no, no. Don't worry.
COUNSELOR: Okay well I mean-I just wanted to make sure.
PATIENT: No, that's why I called. Because I was not feeling well, so. I was like before I start getting crazy.
PATIENT: Okay. So let me give you a card. We said next Thursday at 5:00.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so Thursday at 5:00 PM. Okay.
PATIENT: So if at any pointCOUNSELOR: Is that the way you say your name? Betty?
PATIENT: Betty.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, Betty. Okay, Marta, it was a pleasure meeting you.
END TRANSCRIPT

back to top
Copyright © 2008 by Alexander Street Press, LLC • About | Help | Terms of Use

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094420

11/11

