8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Home
Browse
Browse All Works
Browse Client Narratives
Browse Reference
Browse Session Transcripts
Browse Subjects
Browse Symptoms
Browse Therapies
Search
Help
All Works  »  Full Text

  

Search:

GO

Full Text
Client 408: Client is frustrated and angry with the relationship he has with his father. He is working on self-control
and anger resolution. He has been struggling with ﬂashbacks of the sexual abuse he endured as a child, (2005), 8p.
 show metadata

TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: So Dane how are you doing today?
CLIENT: Good ... ummm I don't know. Well lately, I have been angry. You know with my dad and all. It seems like
every since we did that one dictation game where he threw down his pencil and did not want to participate
everything has really gone down hill from there...
THERAPIST: You mean when we were playing the communication game and your dad did not want to continue,
you believe as though things began to go down hill in your treatment?
CLIENT: Yeah it seems like after he refused to play the dictation game he no longer wanted to come up for family
sessions...
THERAPIST: Okay well let's think about this for a little. I remember that there were a couple of session following
the communication exercise, Didn't you go over your committing offense in the session following the
communication exercise.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But you think it was before that session that your father began to miss sessions?
CLIENT: Yeah because when you left Mr. O'hare set up a session and my father cancelled, then when you got back
he never responded to your messages... I am just angry about it....
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000398293

1/6

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

THERAPIST: You're angry about your dad missing sessions?
CLIENT: Yeah, I know that since Julia moved out that maybe he just forgets, I know he drinks a lot on the weekend
but I would tell him not to forget when they would come on Sunday and he still wouldn't call you.
THERAPIST: Well I can deﬁnitely see how that could make you angry. It sounds like you want your dad to come up
and be involved in your treatment... and you know... I am wondering if you even feel like its a lot of responsibility
put on you to have to try and help him remember when sessions are or to call me?
CLIENT: Yeah... that makes me angry to... I don't know.... (Shakes his head while looking down)...
THERAPIST: You're shaking your head and looking down, I am wondering what that means.
CLIENT: I don't know... lately I have been feeling angry and weird a lot these past few weeks. I had a couple of
tantrums over the weekend. But I was able to counter myself on Sunday. It was 1:54 when I started my tantrum and
then 1:56 when I was able to counter myself.
THERAPIST: I am wondering Dane, is paying attention to the time of your tantrums something you usually do?
CLIENT: No not really, I just remember it for Sunday because I noticed that I was able to calm down quicker.
THERAPIST: Oh I see... it's good to hear that although you get angry you are making attempts to counter yourself
and paying attention to how long it takes you to calm down...
CLIENT: Yeah I'm trying, it was really quick that time.
[Short silence.. looks down again and says so.... as if he is trying to come up with something else to talk about]
I don't want it to seem like I am putting the blame onto other people, or make it seem like I am justifying my
behaviors, but I would have to say that some of my group members purposely aggravate me (looks down but up at
therapist at the same time)
THERAPIST:
[Gives another stare encouraging him to continue]...
CLIENT: Charlie and Paul check me for no reason... Like yesterday, I was talking with Bud and Gavin asked me if
that should be my focus and I got angry.
THERAPIST: Okay, let me make sure I have this right... you were talking with Bud and Charlie asked you if that
should be your focus and that made you angry?
CLIENT: Yeah
THERAPIST: Can you explain to me how Charlie asking you if that should be your focus made you angry?
CLIENT: Because I was doing the right thing. I was getting help from Bud on my treatment work.
THERAPIST: Oh so because you were doing the right thing and Charlie accused you of doing something wrong that
is what made you angry?
CLIENT: Uh huh, I was doing what I was suppose to be doing and Charlie was using program to be hurtful, and
Paul chimed in and said Support! Both Paul and Charlie are on level one and should not be checking me anyway.
The higher levels in the group know and see what's going on. They tell them to stop and then check them.
THERAPIST: Oh, so that must make you feel pretty good knowing that the higher levels in the group are supportive
of you.
CLIENT: Yeah it does.

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000398293

2/6

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

THERAPIST: But then I can also see how a situation like that could aggravate you. Dane in the beginning of the
session you talked about feeling angry and then you recently talked about feeling aggravated- can you help me
understand for a moment what the difference between the two are for you?
CLIENT: Aggravation is less than when I am angry.. aggravation when I am one step closer to losing it. When I am
angry I throw tantrums, I hardly do so when I am aggravated. So..... shrugs his shoulders.....
THERAPIST: So when you are aggravated you're less likely to throw a tantrum...
CLIENT: [Faintly] uh huh.... [Looks down again.]
I don't know what's wrong with me, I have been feeling weird lately, Dr. Owens said that he would talk to me today
and tomorrow, but I don't know...
[Looks up at therapist again while he's looking down]
THERAPIST: You're feeling weird eh... what do you mean by weird?
CLIENT: I've been having ﬂashbacks, not so good sleep....
THERAPIST: Flashbacks, what kind of ﬂashbacks?
CLIENT: About the time when I hit my mother and then when my brother sexually abused me.
THERAPIST: Can you tell me a little more.
CLIENT: You mean about when I hit my mother and brother abusing me?
THERAPIST: Well when you say ﬂashbacks do you mean daydreams while you are awake or dreams when you are
sleeping?
CLIENT: A little of both... I can see me hitting my mother when she wouldn't take me to the store with her when
she went to cash her check, and then I think about my brother abusing me and sometimes I think back to when we
used drugs together but not really.
When I was at the youth home, for hitting my mom, I remember that they had to drag me through the hall and I
grabbed a piece of the broken molding and hit my step dad with it.. then when they dragged me some more, I
grabbed another piece, but this time my stepfather snatched me and the molding cut me right here (shows me the
scar on his wrist ) I had to get stitches for it... I think this all may be coming up because I'm waiting to hear about
the trial with my brother.
THERAPIST: It seems like that is enough to make you anxious.
CLIENT: Yeah I'm afraid.
THERAPIST: Afraid, Wow, it takes a lot for a young man like yourself to admit that something like this makes you
afraid, good job... I know other youths who have been afraid too when they have had to testify in court against those
who have hurt them...
CLIENT: Yeah have you heard anything.. it seems like it has been a long time that I have been waiting
THERAPIST: Yeah it almost sounds as if you feel like the waiting for the trial to begin is being dragged out....
That's deﬁnitely enough to make anyone feel anyone feel anxious.
CLIENT: Yeah....
THERAPIST: Hmmm. Dane, I wondering about something, and maybe you have even wondered the same thing.... .
If you are anxious about having to testify at the trial and also having ﬂashbacks of the times in which your brother
abused you, I am wondering if you could ﬁgure out what makes you also have ﬂashbacks about the time you
assaulted your mother. Are you curious about why this may be?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000398293

3/6

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

CLIENT: Yeah.... I mean it could be related because my brother hurt me and I hurt my mom... what's in common is
that there was hurt involved...
THERAPIST: Oh I see... you think that you re having ﬂashbacks of you assaulting mom along with the ﬂashbacks
of the sexual abuse by brother and the anxiety around the upcoming trial because there is hurt involved in both.....
CLIENT: Yeah, It's been weird lately, I've been weird.
THERAPIST: Weird, what do you mean? I take it is more than the ﬂashbacks and the sleeplessness.
CLIENT: Yeah. I haven't been getting a lot of sleep lately and am having more tantrums than usual. Sometimes I
don't sleep until 1 or 3 in the morning and then get back up at 5am. I try to pretend sleep so the midnight staff does
not know. I've been crying for no reason- like on Sunday I cried at church and don't really know why. I have a loss
of appetite.
THERAPIST: A loss of appetite??
CLIENT: Yeah like today, I only ate a couple of spoonfuls of beans, 1 polish sausage and a couple of spoons of
pudding.
THERAPIST: Oh..what is it that you usually eat.
CLIENT: Shoot... I usually eat two polish sausages, all my beans, potato salad and all of my pudding. But now over
I would say the last three weeks or so, I haven't wanted to eat much, sleep much, and I am having difﬁcult focusing
in class. Like today I was working on my power point presentation.
THERAPIST: A power point presentation, that program is pretty sophisticated isn't? That's great!!
CLIENT: Yeah, I am doing a presentation on the Hurons and Miami.... But today, I was looking all over the room
and having a tough time concentrating..
THERAPIST: Oh, How long ago was it that your medications were reduced.??
CLIENT: Oh I am not sure if it's Dr. Owens reducing my meds, I know that the meds were responsible for my
weight gain, so maybe that is why I don't want to eat as much... I don't know but it seems that these things may have
been happening for the last three weeks or so..
[pause and looking up at me again]
THERAPIST: What was going on the last three weeks.
CLIENT: Well 3 weeks ago, Jim died.
THERAPIST: Jim?
CLIENT: My dog, my mom had to put him to sleep, you know that tan dog you met when you went on my home
visits.
THERAPIST: Oh, I am sorry to hear that? I had no idea.
CLIENT: Yeah my mom had to put him to sleep, Julia moved out of my dad's house, I had my court hearing which I
was nervous about, and 3weeks ago, Julia told me that my mom was anorexic. Because I can put my hand around
her wrist automatically, where as before, I am unable to do so around my own wrist.
THERAPIST: So it sounds like you have had to deal with a lot of stressful situations over these last few weeks,
When you say that Julia told you that your mom was anorexic do you remember in what context she told you?
CLIENT: Yeah I was telling her how fat I was, and she said no you're not that fat , look at mom she's anorexic!
THERAPIST: Oh I see... do you know that there is a difference between someone being diagnosed with anorexia, as
in starving them selves, and then someone just saying that somebody's anorexic??
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000398293

4/6

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

CLIENT: Yeah... Julia was saying this because my mom is skinny, like you I'm guessing (what- you must be
kidding)...
THERAPIST: Yeah, so when Julia says that your mom is anorexic this doesn't mean that she is doing anything to
hurt herself this just means that she is skinny. But I can see how yet in still you can be concerned about your mom.
CLIENT: Yeah she diets and eats salads but I know that she is eating because she cooks her own food.
THERAPIST: Hmm , it's interesting Dane, it seems like you can have both anger toward your mom and be
concerned for her at the same time.
CLIENT: Yeah. [Shrugs shoulders again... short silence...]
I don't know.
Well, I am also concerned about one of my group members .. [pause (look at me)]
THERAPIST: [Look back inviting him to tell me more and to continue]
CLIENT: Hunter and his mother. He told us that she had some cancer removed and that there may be some still
there. But his grandmother tells him not to believe anything that his mother says.. Hunter is close to his grandmother
but getting to have a relationship with his mom. It must be tough for him because I know what it's like to feel caught
in the middle or to be pushed back and forth between my mom and dad...
THERAPIST: Oh, so it sounds like you are able to empathize with Hunter--- you are able to put yourself in his
shoes...
CLIENT: Yeah.... Because my mom and dad would make me feel like I was pulled and pushed.. especially around
visits. My dad would tell me that when I got older that I could testify and choose who I wanted to live with. I would
always say my mother because I wanted to be with her more. But It was tough having her say one thing and then
having my dad say another
THERAPIST: You know Dane, I am wondering and wonder if you are curious about something? You know how
when I got back and tried to schedule your family session and your dad would tell you that he was leaving messages
with me to schedule one and I told you that he was not?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I am wondering, and you can help by wondering with me..... did you feel similarly To the way you
just described Hunter feels with his grandmother and mother and the way you said you felt between your father and
mother..
CLIENT: Yeah... my dad was saying one thing and you said another. I would tell my father to call you to set up a
session and then you would tell me that he didn't call.... I was in the middle.
THERAPIST: I see.. how did that make you feel?
CLIENT: Umm I don't know.... It was like I did with my mother and father when I was growing up, I was unsure
who to believe, but I know that you wouldn't make up things like that and I know that my father drinks a lot so he
could be forgetting what he did.
THERAPIST: You know Dane, it must be a tough spot to be in when you are caught in the middle of adults and you
are the child, that seems like it is a lot or responsibility and also what could make you angry and aggravated. I know
that you have to get ready for class now, Was this session helpful to you?
CLIENT: Yeah... This was helpful because it allowed me to get some thing off of my chest... I have been wanting to
express this stuff for a while but do not feel comfortable doing so around Paul and Charlie
THERAPIST: Because you can't trust them enough?
CLIENT: Yeah, because Ted gets triggered easily...
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000398293

5/6

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

THERAPIST: Well you did well with expressing yourself today... and you know what, you did it without throwing
tantrums... what do you think of that-you talked about being angry, aggravated, afraid, etc.... without losing control
of yourself or being hurtful to others.
CLIENT: Yeah it felt pretty good...
THERAPIST: Well keep me posted on the weird things you talked about today-you know the sleeplessness, loss of
appetite, to let me know if any of that changes.
CLIENT: Okay, Are we having group mtg. Today?
THERAPIST: Yep.
THERAPIST: [SEEMS AS THOUGH WANTS ME TO FINISH SENTENCES. CAN'T REMEMBER WHERE HE
WOULD SAY SO'S .... WOULD OFTEN END HIS SENTENCES INCOMPLETE]
END TRANSCRIPT

back to top
Copyright © 2008 by Alexander Street Press, LLC • About | Help | Terms of Use

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000398293

6/6

