8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Home
Browse
Browse All Works
Browse Client Narratives
Browse Reference
Browse Session Transcripts
Browse Subjects
Browse Symptoms
Browse Therapies
Search
Help
All Works  »  Full Text

  

GO

Search:

Full Text
Session 5: Client's family and boss are creating stress in her life, in Client 405: Heterosexual single, female between
21-30 manifests dysthymia and symptoms of anxiety, (2006), pp. 1-19
 show metadata

« Previous   

Session 5: Client's family and boss are creating stress in her life

   Next »

TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: 11-29. Marta Quinn. Therapist Betty Johnson.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:00:07.6) So I went there. It was nice.
COUNSELOR: Good. So what about you and your ex-boyfriend?
PATIENT: It was okay. We talked a lot. He told that he was-he wanted to come back together with me. And I told
him that I didn't.
COUNSELOR: Good.
PATIENT: And that I didn't want to have the same relationship from before and so. Yeah, we talked a lot. We've
been talking about it a lot. So I think-I mean, yeah. I don't want-I don't want to be again with him, same type of
relation. And I tell him. It's okay. So that is-I mean, it's difﬁcult, but I tell him. And he told me he wanted to be my
friend. He really had a lot of feelings for me and that - what that. He didn't want-he didn't like the idea that I just
cancelled him. And I told him I needed that time and space to be away from him. So that's okay.
COUNSELOR: So you were assertive with him. Let him know, "This is what I needed." [0:01:15.5]
PATIENT: He's like, "Why did you erase me from everything?" It's like, "I needed that. I needed to be away and
learn how to be by myself. And not be afraid of being lonely." So it was okay. But the bad part-the bad news this
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094430

1/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

week was that my aunt, my mom's oldest sister? She got breast cancer. So - and it's really advanced. They don't
know if it went other places. I mean, they-the doctor told her that it's not spread. But they started the chemo on
Monday.
And she went to the doctor on Thursday, I guess, or Friday? Thursday, Friday. And they started the chemo that
Monday. So my mom is freaked out. She's really sad. And she had this problem in her stomach. In Portugal we get a
lot of parasites. Sometimes the water is not the best. So I think she has that. But then she doesn't want to go to the
doctor because she thinks they're going to tell her she has stomach cancer. So I was talking to her today COUNSELOR: Who was this now? This is your mom? [0:02:32.0]
PATIENT: My mom.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay.
PATIENT: She was really-she's really depressed and sad that my aunt has breast cancer. So my mom has this
problem in her stomach and she thinks it's stomach cancer. And I had to tell her, "No, it's not. It's just parasites."
And she's like, "I don't want to go to the doctor because the doctor will tell me something is really wrong." And I'm
like, "You have to go to the doctor."
It's like-when you go or you're in a car and you have a car accident. And then you don't go out again of your house
because something might happen. I told her, "No. You have to-you have to go to the doctor. It can get really bad if
you don't go to the doctor." So it's been-it has been really hard this week.
My boss is acting like a maniac. And he is like-he's telling me that-I don't know. One day, I was doing something
that I really don't know how to you, because my background is not in computer sciences. And I was - he wanted me
to do something and I was not-it took me one month. Less than one month-three month-three weeks to get all the
software from all the companies and really knowing what I needed to do.
And then I found out that I needed to write a code and I'm not trained for that. He knows that I don't know how to
program. So I told him, "This doesn't work because I don't know how to do it." So he came to the lab and he's like,
"You have to leave your personal life away from the lab." And I'm like, "What are you talking about?" He's like,
"You get depressed and then you stop working." It's like, "No, it's just that I'm not trained to write a code."
[0:04:10.5]
COUNSELOR: What would give him that impression that you were depressed(crosstalk)
PATIENT: I don't know. He's crazy. (ph)
COUNSELOR: And you don'tPATIENT: Oh, because I told him that I was frustrated because I couldn't do the work. So he's like, "You have to be
cold." I didn't tell him anything else. He comes to the lab once a week. He doesn't know anything about my life. I
haven't told. He's like, "You need to write a code. You need to make that work."
COUNSELOR: Do you think any other things that are going on in your personal life affect your job performance?
Or affects the way you work?
PATIENT: I don't think. I don't know. Right now. I don't know. And yeah, so I thought he was like my - like, "Oh
my God. My life is affecting my job." But then my lab mate, she had to do a seminar. And she asked him if she
could do the seminar by-in May. So he said, "Yeah. Yeah." So he scheduled all the seminars and he gave her
February 15. And she's like-so she went-she talked to him and she's like, "I asked you to give me a late date, in
May."
He comes to the lab and started yelling. "You guys don't appreciate anything I do for you. It's an honor to give a
seminar. And if you don't want to do it, Christina, it's okay. " And she's like, "I have to do it. I want to do it. I just
asked for a later date." But he didn't care. He just started yelling at her, like she didn't want to do the seminar. She's
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094430

2/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

like, "I asked you before. You said 'yes'. And now you're yelling at me because I said that I wanted May and not in
February?"
So at the beginning I thought that he told me I couldn't get frustrated with my work. And I had to be cold, no
emotions in the lab. Then I understand that the guy is crazy. I mean, it's not that I-[ 0:05:59.2]
COUNSELOR: What kind of emotions do you typically display in a lab?
PATIENT: Nothing. I just told him that I was frustrated because my work was going-I wasn't getting any-I didn't get
any results. That's the only thing I told him. Anything else. And he starts yelling at everyone in the lab. It's like a...
And then-yeah. I don't know. He's like-and he called me into his ofﬁce. And it was so funny because again, he left
his door open. Three weeks ago was when he called me and gave me a bonus for being a good worker. And he
closed the door. This time he left the door open. And it's like, "Oh my God. He's going to start yelling."
COUNSELOR: And did he?
PATIENT: Hm?
COUNSELOR: did he start yelling?
PATIENT: No, he started talking really loud. You have to work harder. You have to put the energy. Otherwise I'll
have to do your work. And then if I do your work, I cannot do my job. I told him. And then he's like, starting giving
me more work. And he's like, "This is really easy, Marta. If you cannot do this, you don't-" I don't remember the
words he used.
But he-the thing is he was saying, "I gave this easy job so you can do something. Because you cannot do the hard
work." He knows I'm a pharmacist. I'm not a stupid computer science person. It's not that I learn how to do it and I
cannot do it right now. No, I'm a pharmacist. I learned different stuff. I'm learning this. So he cannot pretend-[
0:07:31.6]
COUNSELOR: So it seems like his expectations are unreasonable or...
PATIENT: Yeah, I think his expectations are cra-I mean. And he sends me this e-mail and half the e-mail is with
capital letters. "You need to do it. You need to learn how to do it. You cannot just leave your work halfway." And it's
like, "I didn't-I..." I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Let me ask you this, Marta. When did you ﬁnd out about your aunt, and then your mother?
PATIENT: Last Saturday. But he yelled at me Friday or Thursday.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so this was before you found out. Okay. Okay.
PATIENT: No, I mean-I told. He yelled at me because I told him I was frustrated because my work. I wasn't getting
any good results. And then he made-created a whole theory about it. I don't know. I think he's crazy. I don't want to
stay here working with him. He's a roller coaster of emotions. One day, he's really nice and gives you money. And
tells me that I'm the best. And next day, he just tells me that I don't-I mean-that I'm useless. I don't know. I don't
want to-I'm COUNSELOR: What does it feel like, being... [0:08:48.5]
PATIENT: I-it feels-it feels bad.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:08:50.7)
PATIENT: I don't know how to-I don't know what he's going to say. I don't know how he's going to act.
COUNSELOR: So kind of like walking-have you heard the term 'walking on egg shells', around here?
PATIENT: Yeah. We have the same one in Spanish.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094430

3/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Yeah. It's...
COUNSELOR: What is it in Spanish? For... how do you say it in Spanish?
PATIENT: [Caminar en c�scaras de huevo] (ph) is the same thing.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And it's like you don't know what his mood is going to be next time around?
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah, so-and, okay. So after he yelled at my lab mate. He comes in the lab. It's like, ""You can
leave whenever you want. If you want to graduate tomorrow, you will graduate tomorrow." And she's like, "What? I
have to do a bunch of stuff before I graduate." He's crazy. He's like-he has problems. And he comes to the lab and
makes us feel like, I don't know.
COUNSELOR: What kinds of things do you say to yourself?
PATIENT: Sorry?
COUNSELOR: I was asking, what kinds to you end up saying to yourself as you're listening to these things you're . (inaudible at 0:09:53.8)
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: No-but-that's the problem. When he starts telling me this stuff, I start thinking, "Oh my God. Yeah.
Perhaps I didn't work enough this week. I only worked from 8:30 to 6:30. I should stay here. I work harder. I should
do this. I should do that." And then-and this happened for a couple of days. And then I realized that.
And like, no. The guy's crazy. He cannot manipulate. I'm not a PhD-I mean, I'm not a graduate student yet. I'm just
learning and working. And new - something that is really new for me. And it's really new for him and he shouldn't
be yelling at me like that. If I were doing something but I was trained. And I was doing it for a couple of years?
Okay. But it's something he doesn't even know how to do. And it's not how I feel. It's like, why the hell am I doing
that? [0:10:46.4]
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:10:46.4)
PATIENT: I don't have a problem learning. I love to study. And I love that - I love to learn. The problem is that he
expects-I don't know what he expects. I don't-it's crazy.
COUNSELOR: Sounds like-is he driving you crazy or making you crazy?
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Every time-and it's the same thing. It's like, I start from zero with him. It's like I say, I'll just
forget everything he said. He's nice for a while and then he gets crazy. And then starts yelling at us. And starts doing
crazy stuff. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So let me ask you this, Marta. If you didn't work for this gentleman, what are your options?
PATIENT: Go back to Portugal. Yeah. I don't know. I haven't even looked for a different job. It's like-I don't know
how the city is-I don't know how-because I don't know how it is, really. I talked to a couple of people before, and
professors from other universities, and they said, "You just have to suck it up and work for him. You need the
experience and you need the recommendation letters to be able to get into grad school."
COUNSELOR: Right. So it sounds like if you don't continue to work with him, you go back to Portugal. [0:12:10.1]
PATIENT: And then I get stuck there. I don't even have a chance to do(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:12:12.5) go to grad school?

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094430

4/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Grad school. But I was thinking that if I get accepted into another-I don't know what to do if I don't get
accepted into another school. I don't even know if I-if it's worth it to... to stay. (cries) Like I told you before, it's like
grad school is hard enough. I think the research is hard enough. The classes are hard enough. Just to have a crazybut your boss is the meanest person in theCOUNSELOR: Yeah, there's a lot of other stresses that just come along with being in the program and being - [that's
enough] (ph) to have.
PATIENT: So I just think that if I get into any other place, I'll just go somewhere else. But if I don't get into any
other place, I don't know what I'm going to do. I don't know-I would need to talk to professors here. Because they
always tell me that-that if I want to stay in Michigan and work with a different person I can do it.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well there's an option, right? [0:13:08.9]
PATIENT: Yeah, but the program is so small. There are only eight professors in the program. And the program is so
small that I don't know if-I don't know how easy it would be to... Because he takes everything really personally.
Like I told you before (crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: He had-he had post-docs. And he fought with them. And now all he says "Oh, post-docs are the worst. I
would never have a post-doc again. And they always ﬁght. They don't do their job."
COUNSELOR: But if you went to work with someone else, would that be your issue what he's saying in his
(inaudible at 0:13:46.7)?
PATIENT: No no, the problem is that he might be there during-okay, so students have to give seminars to the whole
department, twice. They also have to do data sessions and committee members. And yeah, he might not have to be
in my committee but he would be in the seminars and the defense and things like that. And he takes everything too
personally. He really thinks that, I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Would you trust the rest of the folks who are in the seminar or who have to do the-to be an advisor
(ph), for the defense and those things. Do you trust them enough that they wouldn't allow him to...
PATIENT: I don't know. I don't know the other professors that well. I don't know. I think COUNSELOR: Have you talked to any of the other students to get a read on the people that (inaudible at 0:14:39.4).
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Yeah. My lab mate Christina. She says that if I stay in Michigan, I shouldn't-what, I shouldn't... I
shouldn't work for anyone else. That I should work for him.
COUNSELOR: That you should work with this guy that you're working with now? And what is her rationale behind
saying that, for example?
PATIENT: That it would be really bad to. To work for - - it would look really bad to work. But Christina is someone
who cares a lot about what other people say. She's a really nice person. She smiles to everyone. She really cares a lot
about what other people say. But other people, other students, they tell me, "You don't have to work for him. You
can go work somewhere else." So I don't know. I think it's confusing.
COUNSELOR: [I think] (ph) that's a lot to think about, a lot to weigh.
PATIENT: I think-I don't know how life is going to be, if I don't get into another school. That would be the easiest
thing. Just go somewhere else and tell him that I just-I want to leave because of the weather or something stupid.
COUNSELOR: Rather than tell him that you really don't enjoy working with him.

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094430

5/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Oh I would love to tell him. But I don't know if it would be worth-worth it to ﬁght with him. I don't
know.
COUNSELOR: Let me ask you this, Marta. How were you able to tell your boyfriend, I mean your ex-boyfriend,
"This is...I don't want this. I didn't like this. This is what I needed to do for myself." How were able to tell him that
in such a matter-of-fact and conﬁdent way.
PATIENT: I'm sorry, I'm lost. If I would be able to tell my boss that I don't want to work for him?
COUNSELOR: Well just like you PATIENT: You mean I did with my boyfriend? [0:16:21.7]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: The thing is-I have so many bad feelings that I'm afraid one of these days I'll just explode and tell him
how mean he is. Every day I talk to him, I have to close my mouth. But - but the things is, our - how do you say, the
pharmaceutical science group? Is so small. They know-he knows a lot of other people. There are a lot of
connections. So I don't know if he would make my life impossible after... I don't know. I just...
COUNSELOR: I guess I'm wondering what is different about-what's beenPATIENT: Oh, but this is myCOUNSELOR: How have you been able to share your feelings and your thoughts. And certainly with your exboyfriend, to really communicate your needs and what you didn't like and what you needed for yourself. How were
you able to do that?
PATIENT: And not with my boss?
COUNSELOR: And not with your boss. Yeah.
PATIENT: I think it's because I always think about my future. And I always think that this guy is crazy. My exboyfriend was not crazy. He was not the nicest-well, he was nice. But he was not what I needed, you know. But I
think this guy is crazy. I don't think this guy is-his personal skills are zero.
COUNSELOR: So what would be the worst things that can happen if you were to communicate to him what you
need in him? What you wanted things like? [0:17:48.0]
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Have you imagined it at all?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Have you imagined what that would look like?
PATIENT: No, I just... I don't know. No, I haven't imagined what he would do. At all. I just-the only thing he
wouldn't do it like a normal person. Like if someone comes to me and tells me, "I don't want to work for you
because you blah blah blah blah." I don't know. I don't think he would act like a normal person.
COUNSELOR: A normal person would act like what.
PATIENT: I don't know like-just don't take things that personal. Accept the criticism. There are ﬁts (ph) in life, like
in work and personal relationships.
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: So how do you take care of yourself?
PATIENT: Hm?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094430

6/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: I guess I'm wondering, how do you take care of yourself. Because I see how you've - in a couple
instances, you've shared with me how you've talked to your mom and told her that you can't be her Kleenex. That
was an example of you taking care of yourself. You're communicating assertively what your needs were to take care
of yourself. This ex-boyfriend wants to get back with you and you're like, "No, I need that space. It's not where I
want." You're taking care of yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah, but in work I don't.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. How do you - - how do you-how does that affect, you think. If you're not taking care of
yourself and you're putting up with a lot of the badgering or the things that are making, you said, inadequate and
second guessing your abilities. You have to walk on these eggshells, and to be heard. [But the way,] (ph) when are
going to take care of yourself. [0:19:27.5]
PATIENT: I don't tell anything to him. I just. I don't know. I don't know what I did.
COUNSELOR: Let's just pretend for a moment. Let's pretend that I'm your boss.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: What's his name? Just his ﬁrst name?
PATIENT: He's - this is another thing that. I don't know. I think this is stupid of me. But it just makes me (groans).
He's from Portugal, you know that. His name is Stephan.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Oh I remember you telling me.
PATIENT: That he denies that he's from Portugal. So he changed his name to Steve. And he says-he never meant. I
don't know. I'm really proud of my culture and my country, perhaps. He's the opposite. He doesn't even talk about it.
He just says bad things. So his name is Steve, not Stephan. So yeah. His name is Steve. What would I tell him?
[0:20:31.2]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, let's pretend like I'm him. What if you could say...
PATIENT: Anything? I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Anything about losing your job, or about him making it tough for you when you - these sorts of
things. What would you tell him?
PATIENT: Hm. I don't know. I would tell him that he needs to be..
COUNSELOR: Well think...think about ....
PATIENT: That he needs to be less...
COUNSELOR: Talk to me. I'm Steve.
PATIENT: I don't know how to do this. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: What does Steve do. I'm not...
PATIENT: That you need to be less emotional. Measure your words.
COUNSELOR: Marta, come into my ofﬁce. I've got something to talk to you about.
PATIENT: I don't know. Yeah. You need to be more...
COUNSELOR: Do you sound that way?
PATIENT: Hm?
COUNSELOR: Are you going to start out that way?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094430

7/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Oh no. I don't know how to do this, sorry.
COUNSELOR: Why don't you come into my ofﬁce and we'll talk. Like you had something you wanted to say to me
or share with me. I didn't like the way you did that one program. You know, you should be able to do this. Why can't
you do this? I'm going to give somebody else if you can't do the work the way you're supposed to.
PATIENT: (laughs)
COUNSELOR: This is my time. I can't do your work for you. I got my own stuff to do.
PATIENT: I'm not trained in this. I learned-I'm learning how to do this so you can't expect me to do this really fast. I
don't know what I'd say. [0:22:28.4]
COUNSELOR: Imagine your boyfriend's face on his face. Not even PATIENT: I don't know. I think it also is the language barrier. I don't know how to say things politely without
hurting someone else's feelings.
COUNSELOR: Well right now you're taking care of yourself. And he can't do anything to you. He can't ﬁre you. He
can't do anything. So even if it comes out, don't worry about grammar. Don't worry about the right words. Don't
worry about his feelings at this point. I just want you to just dump that. And maybe not to me-we've got a bumpy
chair you can pretend like he is sitting over there. Whatever works for you. Just if you have to speak it in Spanish,
do that. Whatever. What would it sound like. What would it look like.
PATIENT: You need to be a nicer person. You cannot hurt people's feelings. And just because you are a professor
here, you cannot just hurt-do things. Tell other people that they don't work when they're working. You cannot just
take - make conclusions of those things you because sometimes it's not what is happening. And you need - for being
successful, you need to have people that work for you. And if you're not nice, you're not going to have people in
your lab. (cries) [0:24:18.4]
COUNSELOR: What's coming up for you? What's going on? Why are you crying?
PATIENT: (cries) I just hate to be in the position that you don't have other options.
COUNSELOR: Sure [that's hard] (ph), Marta. What is that like? It sounds like you love what you do.
PATIENT: Yeah, I really like to do research, really like science. But being in a situations like this, you know. Where
I'm not sure if I'm getting so much. And it just makes me-it's a huge effort. It just makes me think that if it's worth it.
If I would ever be good enough to... I mean, it's a lot of pressure. And I just... don't - sometimes I don't know if it's
worth it or not. I mean if it's just not better to go back. [0:26:09.4]
COUNSELOR: Better to back to Portugal?
PATIENT: M-hm.
COUNSELOR: You know..
PATIENT: Because my hands are tied here. It's like I'm a slave because I depend. I depend on him and I depend on
this position to be able to be here and to go to grad school. It's not like-it's like, "I'm sick of you." and then I go and
ﬁnd myself another position. Because I cannot do it. It's really hard-A) I needed the recommendation letter so I
couldn't change. I just couldn't go and change jobs. Now I could start a new job, but I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Well let's try and brainstorm a way possibly that you..
PATIENT: But I've been doing-I've been trying to brainstorm and ﬁnd ways to-I don't know. To go.
COUNSELOR: Okay maybe we can brainstorm ways of how to talk with Steve. In a way where you're not hurting
his feelings. Where you're not causing him to want to ﬁre you or send you back. And there's - there are ways to
communicate your needs and your feelings. And your opinions and your experiences without pushing people away.
Or without making them dislike you or without disrupting things. Because the reality is, you do need his
recommendation letter, right? [0:28:00.1]
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094430

8/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: He already gave them to me.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: But he can-I don't know if he couldCOUNSELOR: He can resend it or take it back(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Or do something crazy. I don't know. And I haven't applied to Michigan. I need to apply to Michigan.
That's the thing. It's like, I need to apply to Michigan. And I don't even ﬁnd the energy to apply to the school here.
It's always like, would I really be able to stay here? I don't know if I want to stay here. I don't know if it's COUNSELOR: When is the Michigan deadline for it.
PATIENT: February 1st.
COUNSELOR: February 1st, okay. So this guy has gotten you so worked up that you don't what to go to Michigan
now?
PATIENT: Yeah, I want to work for him.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: So yeah. So which for me, it's not working for him and staying in Michigan. It's not compatible.
COUNSELOR: Right because of the small department. [0:28:56.0]
PATIENT: Ah because one day he came to our lab and told us that he wasn't getting any new students because we
were saying bad things about him. I'm like, "What? We don't have to say anything. You can just-you do your own
stuff and people know that you're crazy."
COUNSELOR: Because it's obvious, Marta, that you love what you do. You don't want to-you would like to go
back to Portugal to be with your family. That's not(crosstalk)
PATIENT: But I don't want to go and learn their-I don't want to do their-I don't want to do my PhD there.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And I know that if I want to go back and teach there, and do research there, it would be not even better
for me. But for like people I'm going to teach there to get educated here and bring all my knowledge there. I mean
it's not-it's not only because I want it. It think it's also because it's more useful for-you know like.
COUNSELOR: You can help others in a way. (ph) Sure. That's a big responsibility. So it sounds like there's pressure
from different- [0:29:55.2]
PATIENT: Yeah, but it - I wouldn't like to go there and do a PhD there.
COUNSELOR: Right. But to go back and bring your knowledge and your wisdom that you obtained.
PATIENT: I would love to do that. To get trained here. Go to graduate school here. Learn all what I can, and then if I
want to go back, I will go back. If I don't want to go back, I'll just stay here. But...
COUNSELOR: But at least you have that avenue of training.
(crosstalk)

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094430

9/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: But I want to go to grad school here. I don't know. I don't want to-I don't want to go to New York because
I don't think in New York the grad schools are as good as here.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so you don't want to do those things? If you had your sights set on doing grad school here,
there is nothing that should be able to stop you from doing that. Right? And sometimes, Marta, when we have a goal
or something in front of us and that we want really bad, sometimes obstacles and things present themselves. Have
you ever seen hurdles before? Like track races? And they have around the track, they are runners and they jump
over these things.
PATIENT: Yeah. [0:30:52.6]
COUNSELOR: You know, that's kind of like what life's course is like. We have this track that we have to run
around. But sometimes there are hurdles that we have to jump over in order to get to the ﬁnish line. And where
we're trying. You know, and so you have this goal to(audio gap)
COUNSELOR: You have this goal to get this graduate degree. You have this goal to get educated in the States. You
have this goal to maybe one day go back to Portugal and teach with this degree and things that you've done. And
you have these hurdles that keep presenting themselves. You have a situation with your boyfriend and the break up.
That could have been a hurdle. You have this crazy, you know, boss and advisor, right? You have, you know, dealing
with your mom's situation. And your family situation and dealing with that loneliness. That's a hurdle. Right?
Sometimes life presents different hurdles that we have to cross, but that doesn't mean when we fall and not continue
to go toward that. Right? You know, just trying to ﬁnd ways to muster up enough energy to get over these particular
hurdles. And what they use in track terminology, they clear the hurdle. Sometimes they even kick them down to go
over to the next one. You know it's like psshhh and then go on to the next one. Psshh and go on to the next one.
That's kind of how you have to look at this stuff. And it's difﬁcult going through. Because sometimes the hurdles
bounce back up and hit the runner. (laughs) You know? You think you're clearing it, and you're not really having
cleared it. It's still really-it's still there. And there are ways to do that. [0:32:35.7]
So there's a way to get over this hurdle, this boss, that we can talk about. So that you don't have to give up your
whole life's dream, to do it. One thing I was thinking about is that sometimes when you want to communicate
concerns that you have with a person, Sometimes you begin by saying everything that you like about the person. Or
everything you like about the experience before you give them some of the negative things.
So saying like, you know, "Steve, I want to just sit and talk with you for a moment. I want to thank you for allowing
me this opportunity. I'm learning a whole lot from you. There's some great things that you have taught me as an
advisor. And you know, I can really see myself doing something in this career because of what you have taught me
and shared with me." And things like that. "I really like what I'm doing. I really love this opportunity. And I don't
want to do anything to jeopardize that. And I just want to know, what can I do to learn more." Do something like
that.
And then say, "But in order for me to really take advantage of this opportunity. There are some concerns I have that
are preventing me from doing that. Sometimes I feel that you can be mean to me. And I understand that you're an
advisor and you have a lot of work to do. And you need to have things in order. Or you have everything right. But
sometimes when you talk to me about things, mistakes I've made or things I've done. Sometimes it hurts my feelings
the way I hear you saying it. And I want to be able to work with you. But in order for me to do that, I need to feel
like I am respected and that you value my work. And that you want me here." [0:34:39.5]
So in that way, it's about 'I feel' this way. It's not you need to this. And you do this. And you make me-because when
you use 'you' a lot? That's when a person gets defensive and wants to ﬁght back and everything else. But if you
bring it to him, you were still telling him how he treats you and you don't like it. But it's more how you're feeling-so
"I feel. I see. "I think." Do you see what I'm saying? [0:35:08.7]
PATIENT: Mm-hm. Yeah. I'm just kind of.
COUNSELOR: You know so there are ways to communicate even the worst things to people without putting it in a
way that they'll be put off by it. And that's a part of-when you start doing your dissertation, Marta, you're going to
have to do a lot of negotiating with the chief research and whoever that you're working with. And so, to be able to
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094430

10/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

do that and deal with that conﬂict, that's a part of the graduate study experience. And it's easier said than done.
Right? I can say all these things, but to actually go through and do it, it's still challenging. Because you don't know
how that person is going to respond.
You're still thinking about your job, still thinking about how it may backﬁre or whatever the case-this person is
really scary to talk to. And that's why it would be nice if we could do some role playing. You know what I'm saying?
You know, that's like I was trying to do here. But give it some thought. If you could say anything to him, what
would you say. Maybe like you said how sometimes you have all this stuff build up, you just want to spat it out?
Spat it out in here. Get all that, the nasty stuff you want to say, just get it out in here. Right?
And then we can practice on how to actually communicate all these things without all the nasty things. So you don't
(laughs) lose your job and your opportunity. You know what I'm saying? Because sometimes you do need to get that
off your chest. You need to call him a couple of bad words, or whatever-it's okay. Do that. Because this is a safe
space to do that. But then we can practice on how do you-okay.
Communicate these same feelings and thoughts in a way that would be beneﬁcial for you. And him. Because this is
your life's' dream. It is worth it. You asked the question, "Is going through all this worth it?" Sure, it's worth it! And
you think you would really be over here in the US now, if it wasn't something that was meant for you to do and
accomplish? No. So don't get discouraged, okay? It's worth it. [0:37:27.2]
And you're going to come-you know how, like diamonds? They have to-coal has to go through the ﬁre, that
pressure. You know, has to form and shape the things. You know? That's what this is happening-that's what this is
about, right here. You know you're that gold forming to that diamond, so you're going to have to go through the
pressure. But when it's all said and done, and you get that degree that you wanted. It - you are going to look back
and like, "Pshew, it was worth it."
And it's only going to make you a stronger - it's only going to make you a better advisor to other students. Right? It
depends on what perspective you take on this. Look at this, okay. "Now I know how I need to be when I'm
supervising students." [0:38:16.0]
PATIENT: Yeah. Not like him. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: You know. So it just depends on what perspective. I know I talked a whole lot. So I apologize for
that. What are you thinking?
PATIENT: No, I mean. It's.. yeah. I have to ﬁgure out how to talk to him. Yeah. Not only if I'm going to stay here,
but if I'm going to leave, I think someone needs to tell him. The real thing, in a nice way. And you're right, I should
just pray on me and.. that he needs to know that. I don't know, I just. He needs to know that. He needs to have
people and needs to be nice with people.
COUNSELOR: You can even say, "I feel if-I feel that if you were nicer to people, you'll have a lot more people who
will want to work with you."
PATIENT: Mm-hm. [0:39:19.9]
COUNSELOR: You know, instead ofPATIENT: That's like people get scared. The ﬁrst year-the ﬁrst year students, they don't want. I mean, they don't
want t o work for someone who is crazy for the next four years. They just pick someone else. And no one ever gets
into the trouble of telling him why he's like, crazy. I mean that he's crazy and that's why he doesn't get any students.
I guess that's how I've been thinking lately. That it's not worth it to ﬁght with him. Or to get into... [0:39:56.2]
COUNSELOR: When it's making you misera-you don't have this. And you know what? It's not worth ﬁghting with
him and getting into a row. It's not.
PATIENT: No. But just telling him that he needs to calm down and be nicer and - . But we've tried. I mean, one-the
day he came to our lab and was like, "You guys don't - cannot go and say bad things about me." We told him, "No,
you need to be nicer with ﬁrst year students." But no, I have to tell him that he needs to be nicer with everyone.

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094430

11/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Right. And so now you can even begin with saying. You know, or in some way, begin by saying,
"You know when we had that conversation about how we thought you should be nicer to ﬁrst year students. We've
been talking and kind of thinking about it. Thinking that maybe it would be nice if you were nicer to us as well. To
all students." [0:40:46.6]
PATIENT: And yeah. I don't understand the system here. How can... He doesn't have any boss. He doesn't have
anyoneCOUNSELOR: Anyone that you can be accountable, that he can be accountable to. That you can, you know, there's
no one looking over his shoulder who (inaudible at 0:41:02.00.)
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Yeah, no one tells him what's right or wrong, so.
COUNSELOR: Right. Sure.
PATIENT: You know, if there were someone who could tell him, "You need to be nicer with students. You need to
be nicer with staff people from the department." Everybody-no one likes him.
COUNSELOR: Let me ask you this, Marta. Do you think-if it is scary to talk to him face to face about these issues.
Have you ever considered writing a letter?
PATIENT: I wrote him and - when he told me I was sabotaging his work? And I did the same thing you said. I
started this e-mail telling him that I really appreciated the opportunity that he gave me. That being able to come here
was my dream. And I was like-and then I told him I made a mistake and it's not sabotage. So don't tell me-please
don't-because I'm a really sensitive person.
Oh because that day, he told me I was doing sabotage and I just started crying in front of him. so it was like, "Oh,
this was not good." So it's like, I'm really sensitive, so every time you say something like that. I just cry. So yeah.
And that day he replied, "Yeah. I'm sorry." [0:42:13.7]
COUNSELOR: At least you had an apology, huh.
PATIENT: Yeah. But I should do the same thing every time he says crazy stuff.
COUNSELOR: yeah.
PATIENT: Because I don't think that he ever, like he ever realizes.
COUNSELOR: Yeah and then maybe collect all your e-mails you have to send and put them all on his desk at one
time. "You see all these things? This day, this day." You know, something to bring into his reality just how much he
does that affects you. And you want to be able to work in an environment where you're appreciated, where you're
valued. And if that people that you have working for you.
If the people that you have working for you, their morale is low, their job performance suffers as well. And so if he
wants people to work more and do a good job, it's important for him to understand he has to create the environment
where he's encouraging, uplifting, and motivating and respectful and, you know, all these things. The best way to-it's
not the best practice if you want productivity from people to beat them down. [0:43:17.9]
PATIENT: Yeah. So I should do that. I should write an e-mail every time he says something like that.
COUNSELOR: And that's the way you take care of yourself. To be assertive and you know. And now you're trying
to take control over your environment, instead of letting it dictate how you're going to feel and what you're going to
do.
PATIENT: Yeah, because that's what's happening like that. It's just like, you're setting a bad mood. And he treats me
like whatever he feels like.
COUNSELOR: So every time you start feeling the pressure and start thinking, "Is this worth it? What do I do, I
don't have options." I want you to ﬁrst think to yourself the reason why you're in this. Because sometimes we lost
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094430

12/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

sight of why we're doing something? Sometimes when we bring it back to ourselves, it's like, okay. That's enough to
kind of, sustain us through that time here. You know? If you-do you make collages at all? Have you ever done that
before? Where you go through magazines and...
PATIENT: Oh, and you cut..
COUNSELOR: And you cut things out. Because sometimes what people do, they get like a poster board and
something-a picture frame, piece of paper, whatever. And they cut out words and pictures. And images that remind
them of their roles. Or what it is they're working on. Or what they want to accomplish. And those sorts of things.
They glue it together and put it somewhere where they'll see it everything day.
PATIENT: That's what I'm going to do.
COUNSELOR: Even at your work station. There at work. Hang something up in your space or something or... you
know. And just focus. So every time he [comes into the lab] (ph) you just turn around and look at that and say,
"Okay. This is why I may be going through this. Because I'm trying to get to that." And it helps keep you focused on
what's important. So you don't lose sight of it. And allow emotions and things distract you and deter you from that.
Because that can be really easy.
You're tearing up again. Why? What's going on? [0:45:33.5]
PATIENT: No, it's that-that I feel like, oh my God. I've been thinking about it. How you're right-I've been thinking
all this week like, is it even worth it? I mean. So yeah. I'm going to do a collage. I'm ready.
COUNSELOR: I would be interested in seeing it. If you bring it in, if you decide to do one. I'd be interested to see
it.
PATIENT: (laughs) I will bring it, yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's framing your future with pictures and words. Somehow they say, what you see in front of you
on a daily basis is sometimes what you're drawn, or what's drawn to you or you're drawn to it. So you have your
goals and things in front of you on a daily basis and somehow, someway you are drawn to those things. Just by
challenging obstacles and things that come up. So it can be really powerful, Marta. Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah. [0:46:34.7]
COUNSELOR: And kind of make up your mind, what do you want your work day. Before you even walk into that
place with him. How do you want that day to look like. What do you want your interactions to look like. "This is
going to be a good day. Stephan is going to be a wonderful boss today. He's going to treat me with respect." Just
build yourself up and say those types of things before you even get in there. And you'll be surprised by how much of
that actually happens throughout the day.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: All righty?
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Is it time for us to-yeah, yeah. So.
PATIENT: Okay, so I'll just do my collage.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And I'll think - we have lab meeting tomorrow. So I'll just, yeah. Do it for my lab meeting. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: So we should schedule it?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Let's do that. Next week is the seventh? Does that work out for you?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094430

13/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: The seventh. Yeah. Okay. At one?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, one o'clock.
PATIENT: Okay?
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Okay. Well, you get prepared for the snowing and...
END TRANSCRIPT

back to top
Copyright © 2008 by Alexander Street Press, LLC • About | Help | Terms of Use

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094430

14/14

