8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Home
Browse
Browse All Works
Browse Client Narratives
Browse Reference
Browse Session Transcripts
Browse Subjects
Browse Symptoms
Browse Therapies
Search
Help
All Works  »  Full Text

  

Search:

GO

Full Text
Cognitive-Therapy: This transcript is an initial therapy session with Dr. Krumboltz and Robin, a white female,
where the presenting issue is Robin’s relationship with her mother-in-law, by John D. Krumboltz, in Psychotherapy
with the Experts, (1997), pp. 1-34
 show metadata

« Previous   

Cognitive‑Therapy: This transcript is an initial therapy session with Dr. Krumboltz and Robin, a white female,...

  

Next »

COGNITIVE-BEHAVIOR THERAPY
with
John Krumboltz

Introduction
John Krumboltz received his Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota. He has been on the faculty of Stanford
University since 1957 where he is a professor in education and psychology. John has a number of publications
covering topics such as learning theory, behavioral counseling, counseling methods, career decision making, and
assessing career development. He currently serves on the editorial board of the Journal of Career Assessment and
the Educational Research Journal. Among the many awards he has received for his outstanding work are the
Distinguished Professional Service Award from the American Personnel and Guidance Association and the Eminent
Career Award from the National Career Development Association. He is an APA Fellow and has held leadership
positions in several professional organizations including serving as President of Division 17 of APA, Counseling
Psychology.
This transcript is an initial therapy session with Dr. Krumboltz and Robin, a white female, where the presenting
issue is Robin's relationship with her mother-in-law.
Transcript

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158872

1/16

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Krumboltz 1: Robin, you and I have just met, and uh, we, are here making a ﬁlm, and we have camera people
around and three cameras going, and, uh, this ﬁlm is going to be seen by thousands of people (Robin: laughter) I n
the years ahead and, uh, the ground rules here are that you and I have 40 minutes to work together, and we are going
to see if we can accomplish whatever we can accomplish in 40 minutes.
Robin 1: Okay.
Krumboltz 2: And I am looking forward to doing that with you. (Robin laughter) And, uh, I understand that you
have something on your mind, and I would like to know what it is.
Robin 2: (laughter) Well, I guess, I'm having trouble in, uh, relationships are complicated with people. Um, but I am
having speciﬁc problems right now with my in-laws, and I know that that's common, that everybody, you know, you
always hear all the mother-in-law jokes and things like that, but, um, uh, I'm having some real difﬁculty knowing
what my boundaries are, how much should I give, how far should I bend, uh, (Krumboltz-Mhm) how much should I
really care, should I let it bother me, should I not? Um . . .
Krumboltz 3: It does bother you though.
Robin 3: It does.
Krumboltz 4: Yeah.
Robin 4: It very much does.
Krumboltz 5: I, I hear that.
Robin 5: Um. My husband is an only child, (Krumboltz: Mhm), and for a long time everything that my mother-inlaw said I took personally. Now I know it's just, it's because who her son married, it has nothing to do personally,
but accepting that is extremely difﬁcult for me. Um. Anything she says, anything she does, I still take personally
(Krumboltz-Mhm), even though I shouldn't.
Krumboltz 6: What do you mean you shouldn't? Why shouldn't you take it personally?
Robin 6: Because it's not against me personally. It's against the person that married her husband.
Krumboltz 7: Yeah, but you are that person.
Robin 7: Or her son.
Krumboltz 8: You are that person.
Robin 8: Yeah, but . . .
Krumboltz 9: And so, tell me more about the speciﬁcs of this. What, what exactly, um, happens?
Robin 9: Well, I mean, I could start from the very, I mean, there is so much history between us. Um, I don't know
how far to go back, um . . .
Krumboltz 10: Well, why don't we not go back too far. Why don't we start with more recent.
Robin 10: Okay.
Krumboltz 11: What's the most recent thing that's happened?
Robin 11: The most recent thing was this past weekend. (Krumboltz: Mhm) What had led up to the point was, um, I
have a son who is 14 months old. (Krumboltz: Mhm) When he was born, I really thought that this would be a time
for his parents to become more involved in our lives and want to have some thing to do with their grandchild. They
never showed any interest whatsoever. (Krumboltz Mhm) Um, they live locally where I do, (Krumboltz: Mhm) and
they only visited maybe 5 times within that year. (Krumboltz Mhm) That was very disturbing to me. (Krumboltz:
Mhm) Um, this past weekend they came down for a visit completely unexpected. (Krumboltz: Mhm) I was not
prepared. I don't like surprises. (Krumboltz: Mhm, Mhm) Um, my husband immediately dropped all our plans and
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158872

2/16

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

catered to everything that they did, (Krumboltz: Mhm) and the fact that the holidays are approaching, (Krumboltz:
Mhm) I've already made my holiday plans. Normally we don't do anything with them because they don't want to be
involved with us. (Krumboltz: Mhm, mhm) Well, all of a sudden now , they want my husband to go to Tennessee
with them to visit their family for Thanksgiving, (Krumboltz: Mhm) and, um, I wasn't invited and neither was my
son.
Krumboltz 12: Oh my! Mmmm.
Robin 12: So, um . . .
Krumboltz 13: That hurts.
Robin 13: It hurts, but I mean, I know that it causes some conﬂict with my husband and I, but my husband's not one
of those ones to stand and tell his mother, you know, don't, don't say anything against her, blah, blah, blah. Because
he knows that she doesn't come around much. But the ridicule that she gives me, she also gives to him. (Krumboltz:
Mmm) But he's been raised in that type of environment, so he can ignore it. He doesn't let it bother him.
Krumboltz 14: Tell me about this ridicule.
Robin 14: Um, well, I've been told that I'm not good enough for her son, that I don't take care of him enough, um . . .
Krumboltz 15: Told to your face?
Robin 15: Yes.
Krumboltz: 16 Mhm. In just those words, "You're not good enough for my son"?
Robin 16: Yeah. When I, um, when we were planning our wedding, (Krumboltz Mhm) I wanted to include her and
offered her, you know, if she had anything she wanted, and she said "No, I'm sorry I just can't, I can't be involved in
it because I don't think you're good enough for my son. You don't, you don't treat him the way you should."
Krumboltz 17: Mmmm!
Robin 17: I mean . . .
Krumboltz 18: Mmmm! Wow, that is really cruel.
Robin 18: (giggles) Well, she's the only woman I've ever encountered that can't like me. (Krumboltz: Mhm, Mhm) I
think I have one of those personalities that I've never met a stranger . . .
Krumboltz 19: Yes, I, I sense that about you, too. I mean, you have a very friendly, outgoing nature, and I image
everyone you meet would just love you.
Robin 19: Mhm. And she's the only one that doesn't. And that hurts so much and I .
Krumboltz 20: Of course.
Robin 20: I can't gain her approval. They're, they're, I mean, I've tried. Um, I've tried to kill her with kindness, you
know, (Krumboltz Mhm, Mhm) remembering her birthday, holidays, things like that. I've, I've tried it all.
Krumboltz 21: Mhm, and what happens when you do that. I mean, you remember her birthday - what does she say
when you . . .
Robin 21: She talks speciﬁcally to my husband, Ed, and says, "Oh, thank you for thatcard", or "Oh, thank you for
that gift. You picked it out so well", and my husband will immediately say, "Well what did you get? I don't know
what you got be cause Robin bought it", (Krumboltz yeahm, yeahm) you know, that type of thing. But she never
acknowledges.
Krumboltz 22: She won't acknowledge that you did it.

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158872

3/16

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Robin 22: No, no. (Krumboltz: Mhm, mhm) Everything comes from her son. (Krumboltz: Mhm, Mhm) But yet,
before I came along, he never did anything for his parents. (Krumboltz: Mhm) You know, but, that's . . .
Krumboltz 23: Mhm, mhm. I can, I can see that would be very, very difﬁcult to take.
Robin 23: It is. And it's a relationship that's, that for most people is difﬁcult anyway, but I guess when I, when I look
at my son and know that someday if he decides to marry, I'm going to be a mother-in-la w, (Krumboltz Mhm) and I
think to myself, no way am I going to even think about mistreating, you know . . .
Krumboltz 24: Your, your daughter-in-law.
Robin 24: Yeah. Just because . . . it's almost inhumane.
Krumboltz 25: It is not almost inhumane. It is inhumane. It is, it is.
Robin 25: But I don't want, I mean, it has, it has caused problems in the past with, with my husband. Now, we've
basically come to terms that, when they come around, we try to just be friendly and, you know, and then if they
don't come around, (Krumboltz Mhm, mhm) that's okay too. Uh, but, and it doesn't cause problems, but yet the
underlying current is still there, you know, because it, one time I did confront her that I didn't feel part of the family.
Uh, it, it doesn't register with her. (Krumboltz Mhm) It goes in one ear and out the other. (Krumboltz Mhm) I me an,
(Krumboltz Mhm) she immediately changes the subject. So, there, there is nothing I can do or say to her to get her
to understand. It's something that I have to learn to accept (Krumboltz Mhm) how to do that and still keep my sanity.
It's like . . .
Krumboltz 26: Mhm, Mhm. Well, that's, that's an interesting dilemma that you are in. Let's, let's, so, let's kind of
concentrate a little bit on how you might work on this. Your mother-in-law is not going to change.
Robin 26: No. The only person who can change is me.
Krumboltz 27: That's right. That's right, the only person who can change is you.
Robin 27: Mhm.
Krumboltz 28: Your husband probably cannot change.
Robin 28: Nope.
Krumboltz 29: And, so you and I have this rare opportunity right now to (Robin Mhm) see if we can't think of a way
to deal with this situation so t hat you will not feel so devastated when you get these cuts.
Robin 29: Mhm. Yeah.
Krumboltz 30: So, let's, let's, let's ﬁrst, Uh, kind of think now, why, why do you suppose your mother-in-law does
this? I mean, can you, can you put yourself in her shoes for a moment and . .
Robin 30 : Yeah, I've taken her son away.
Krumboltz 31: Yes, you have. Her only son.
Robin 31: Her only son, yeah.
Krumboltz 32: And you, Robin, have stolen (Robin Yup) her only son. (Robin Mhm) And your husband loves you
(Robin Mhm) maybe even more than he loves . . .
Robin 32: Her.
Krumboltz 33: His mother.
Robin 33: Mhm, mhm, yeah. The, the, it goes without saying there is an intimacy between a husband and wife that
is not with a parent, uh, (Krumboltz Mhm, mhm) uh, that's why I sometimes think that she's got a problem because
she, she had an unhealthy relationship to begin with, with her son. She was very possessive with him.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158872

4/16

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Krumboltz 34: Oh, she, oh, she was.
Robin 34: Yeah.
Krumboltz 35: Mhm. And now her possessiveness is really challenged (Robin Mhm) by your presence.
Robin 35: Mhm. Deﬁnitely.
Krumboltz 36: She must feel absolutely threatened.
Robin 36: I think she does.
Krumboltz 37: At a, at a very deep level she is, she is, uh, so insecure in, her, uh, herself that, that she sees what is,
to anybody else a normal happy marriage, as a threat to her.
Robin 37: Mhm, mhm. But see she feels insecure, so how she responds is to make me insecure.
Krumboltz 38: Exactly, exactly. That's . . . well, what a wonderful way to do it. What a wonderful . . .
Robin 38: She succeeds very well. (laughter)
Krumboltz 39: Well, I hear that. She's, she's a master at this art of making you feel bad. (Robin Mhm) But she is
doing it because she herself is threatened by the loss, what she perceives, as the loss (Robin Mhm) of a son. Now,
it's, it's a sick way to look at it. (Robin Mhm) I mean, a normal healthy individual would say, "Oh, how wonderful.
Now, not only do I have a son, but I have a daughter and a grandson, (Robin Mhm) and wonderful. What a terriﬁc
(Robin Mhm) pleasure to have our family increase so delightfully."
Robin 39: Right.
Krumboltz 40: That would be a healthy way to look at it.
Robin 40: Right, and she doesn't.
Krumboltz 41: She's not a healthy, she's not a healthy person.
Robin 41: No.
Krumboltz 42: And the more you try to cater to her, the more you try to please her, what's going to happen?
Robin 42: It doesn't affect her. It just makes me more frustrated because I feel that I can't accomplish anything.
Krumboltz 43: Mhm. Exactly, exactly. And do you think that she might even know that at some level?
Robin 43: Her? No. (laughter) No, not her. I don't think so.
Krumboltz 44: You don't think she even knows that?
Robin 44: No, I'll be honest. I don't think she smart enough to understand any of that.
Krumboltz 45: Yeah. But at an emotional level. Intellectually, she probably doesn't.
Robin 45: Emotional level she knows she can get to me.
Krumboltz 46: Yeah, exactly.
Robin 46: Yeah.
Krumboltz 47: Exactly. And if she gets to you enough, I'm, I'm looking at this from her point of view now, or let's
you and I both look at it from her point of view. She gets to you enough at her emotional level, may be she can . . .
Robin 47: Get Ed back.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158872

5/16

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Krumboltz 48: Get him back.
Robin 48: Yeah.
Krumboltz 49: Get him away from you.
Robin 49: Mhm. Oh, she's tried.
Krumboltz 50: She has? What do you mean?
Robin 50: Uh, (sigh) we had, we were building a new home. And we sold our home. We had to ﬁnd a, temporary
housing for six weeks. Uh, my parents could not hold the two of us. His mother refused to let me live with them for
six weeks. So, we just went ahead and decided and went our separate ways. I stayed with my parents, and he stayed
with his parents for six weeks, (Krumboltz: Mmm, I see) and, it, it took us probably three months after that six
weeks for us to come to terms with what had happened.
Krumboltz 51: Mhm. I can see . . . Now, can, can you and your husband talk about this situation.
Robin 51: Mhm, very, very well.
Krumboltz 52: And what is his, what is his attitude about it?
Robin 52: He tries to tell me, and this is what bothers me the most, he says that she and I are a lot alike, and that's
why we can't see eye to eye on a lot of things, that we, in other words, we both want the best for him. He, he really
believes that his mother wants the best for him, and that's okay if that's what he wants to believe. Uh, but he thinks
that I just need to let whatever she says go in one ear and out the other because that's what he's done. (Krumboltz
Mhm, mhm) She will put him down, and it doesn't even register with him as a put-down.
Krumboltz 53: What, what does she say to him that puts him down?
Robin 53: Uh, that he's overweight. That he's lazy. He's too picky about his house, Uh . . .
Krumboltz 54: Mhm. Does she, does she ever praise him? Does she ever . . .
Robin 54: Never.
Krumboltz 55: Never.
Robin 55: Never.
Krumboltz 56: Has she ever praised you?
Robin 56: Never. Well, she did one time. On my wedding day, she told me that I looked very beautiful. (Krumboltz
Mmm) That was it. That's the only compliment I've ever received. (Krumboltz Mmm) You know, so, when you get
them, you remember them. (Krumboltz Yeah, yeah) But, she, she, it's, it's sort of like, you know, my mother told me
if you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all. Well, she'll say, she'll speak her mind.
Krumboltz 57: She is just the other way around.
Robin 57: Mhm.
Krumboltz 58: If she has something bad to say, she'll say it. If she has some thing good to say. . .
Robin 58: She won't.
Krumboltz 59: She won't say a word.
Robin 59: Mhm.
Krumboltz 60: Mhm. So, you are in this dilemma of, uh, of, of really being all alone in this situation. Because your,
your husband doesn't quite understand. . .
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158872

6/16

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Robin 60 No, he's a lot like my father-in-law. My father-in-law told me the same thing when I tried to talk to him,
that that's just the way she is. You just accept her the way she is. Uh, he never says anything. I mean, he's got a heart
of gold. He would do anything and everything for us. But he will never disagree with her.
Krumboltz 61: He won't confront her?
Robin 61: No, never.
Krumboltz 62: And, and, your, your husband doesn't confront her?
Robin 62: No. Never. So, so, my situation is, you know, to what extent do I try to have a relationship with them for
the sake of my son? That's his grandmother , but yet, eventually, he is going to know and be able to see that the re is
a difference, (Krumboltz: Mhm) in her, (Krumboltz Mhm) and he is going to see that.
Krumboltz 63: Oh, of course he will.
Robin 63: Uh, at what point do you, do you say, we are only going to allow certain things to happen, or, we are only
going to get together occasionally, you know. The one thing that I have said, regardless, is that if she wants to have
anything to do with my son, I will be included. That's just a given.
Krumboltz 64: Good for you.
Robin 64: Just because it's my son. You know, I went through the nine months, and I went through the labor and . . .
Krumboltz 65: Exactly.
Robin 65: You want to enjoy him, you'll enjoy him with me.
Krumboltz 66: That's good, that's good. So you, you have asserted yourself in that way.
Robin 66: Mhm.
Krumboltz 67: By making your boundaries clear, right?
Robin 67: Yeah, because when I really thought that there might be a change in her when, when he was born, she
would call and ask how her boy was , referring to my son, and I just laid the law down. I said he is your grandson.
He's my son, he's your grandson.
Krumboltz 68: Good for you.
Robin 68: Yeah, but I didn't feel comfortable doing that.
Krumboltz 69: Well, but good for you. You did it.
Robin 69: No, but, I don't like, because to me that's almost being, uh, rude.
Krumboltz 70: Uh, well, yes, but you. . . I, I, I, for anybody else, I can understand. That would be sort of, yeah, kind
of rude. Because you, you know, someone else might have meant something different by it, or a slip of the tongue or
something. But you knew full well what she was saying.
Robin 70: Oh yeah.
Krumboltz 71: You knew full well, and you confronted her on it.
Robin 71: Yeah, but I didn't like it. (laughter)
Krumboltz 72: Well, but you did it. You did it. Yeah, I think, I think that the thing that maybe we could do for a few
minutes right here is to think about what are the alternatives that, uh, you face here. I me an, let's, let's just kind of
list the possible things that you could do in this situation, okay? I'm sure you've thought about this a lot, so why
don't you just kind of list what they are.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158872

7/16

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Robin 72: The one that I'd love to do is just no relationship with them at all, (Krumboltz: Mhm). But I know that's
not possible.
Krumboltz 73: Okay, let's list that. That's, that's the ﬁrst alternative. Okay. If you don't mind, I'll just make a few
notes here.
Robin 73: Okay.
Krumboltz: 74 Of these things. Okay, ﬁrst thing is just, no relationship at all.
Robin 74: Uh, the second would be setting the ground rules. If she calls me, it has to be at my convenience. It has to
be, you know, okay with me. In other words, no dropping by unexpectedly. Planned, planned visits.
Krumboltz 75: All right, so you would set the ground rules. Planned visits only (Robin Mhm) where you have
agreed to it in advance.
Robin 75: Right.
Krumboltz 76: All right.
Robin 76: You know, like a phone call.
Krumboltz 77: Yeah, a phone call.
Robin 77: Or just let things go the way they are. I mean, uh . . .
Krumboltz 78: The way they are? That's a third alternative. Just let things go the way they are, huh?
Robin 78: Mhm.
Krumboltz 79: Okay, which means that they'd pop over whenever they feel like it?
Robin 79: Mhm, yeah. We used to live in the same town, and they used to do that very frequently, and I put a stop to
that, too. (laughter)
Krumboltz 80: Oh you did?
Robin 80: I just told her, I said, and sometimes you have to be very rude and crude with her. But I just told her. She,
she used to do it a lot right after we got married. And I didn't appreciate it, because I'm one of those people that if I
know somebody's coming over, I'd like the house to be at least presentable. Uh, and ﬁnally, I just told her, well, you
know, we are a young couple, we might be doing something, so I would appreciate it if you would call before you
came over. Because we had given her a key. My husband thought she should have a key, and she would just help
herself right on in. (Krumboltz: Mmm) In other words, there was no respect of our home.
Krumboltz 81: Mmm. Does she still have a key?
Robin 81: Nope.
Krumboltz 82: Ha, ha! (laughter) The way you said that indicates that you must have done something.
Robin 82: Yeah, well, we moved. That was one of the reasons why we moved was mainly to isolate ourselves a little
bit. We put 30 miles between our parents
Krumboltz 83: Oh, okay.
Robin 83: Just to give us a little bit more, uh . . .
Krumboltz 84: a little more distance.
Robin 84: Mhm. That helped a lot.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158872

8/16

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Krumboltz 85: Okay, all right, all right.
Robin 85: That has helped a lot.
Krumboltz 86: Good.
Robin 86: Uh, I'm trying to think if there is anything else.
Krumboltz 87: Well, okay, having no relationship at all is one. Setting some ground rules is the second. Leaving
things as is, is the third. Um, okay. Anything else that you've thought of?
Robin 87: Well, one thing that I would love to happen but will never happen is for my husband to lay the law down.
Krumboltz 88: Mhm, mhm. Okay. But, but since your husband is not here to talk to us, we can't control his . . .
Robin 88: And he's not going to.
Krumboltz 89: And you know he's not going to anyway, uh, but, but one thing that it does suggest is that you could
have a heart to heart talk with h im about this.
Robin 89: Mhm. Which I have.
Krumboltz 90: Which you have had, but you are afraid that would never do any good anyway.
Robin 90: Yeah, it, it probably wouldn't. Uh, uh, well, you know, one of the things, another thing that bothers her,
and I don't, I thought about it a lot, I have a large family. My family is very involved with me and my son. You
know, big extended family. She has always been intimidated by that also. So, I mean, like a couple of, like, when
my son had his ﬁrst birthday, I invited all the family. They came, gave him his gift, he opened up his gift. When he
had ﬁnished opening up that gift, they left. She wouldn't stay with the rest of the family for the rest of the party.
Krumboltz 91: Oh, she left early.
Robin 91: Yeah.
Krumboltz 92 After she had done her thing?
Robin 92: Uh huh. Yeah. (Krumboltz: Uh huh) But yet they came over the next day when nobody else was there.
Krumboltz 93: Ahh, interesting.
Robin 93: So, I, I sometimes think, okay, she's intimidated by my family. Maybe I need to make sure that she has
her own time. That if I do ha ve a family event, that I do one thing for my side of the family and o ne thing for his
side, which his side is only his parents. (Krumboltz Mhm, mhm) but that's more work for me. But yet it caters to
her.
Krumboltz 94: It does, doesn't it?
Robin 94: Mhm.
Krumboltz 95: It does. You know, what, what occurs to me is, uh, maybe there is a way of using your family as a, a,
a buffer. That is, uh, uh, the only time that you, you have certain, say, family gatherings, (Robin Mhm ) uh, his
family and your family come at the same time. Now she's not going to like that.
Robin 95: Right, right
Krumboltz 96: We already know that. Okay. But, that's the family gathering time. And if you had some sort of a
ground rule that, that she only ca me over when it was agreeable with you, (Robin Mhm) then you could control
when she appeared. And, and if you wanted to, I mean, just, just to list another alternative here, you could say, we
are not having a family get together until next month, the 29th of next month, and, uh, so we are going to invite you
and your husband and my family over then. And we certainly hope that you will be able to come.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158872

9/16

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Robin 96: (laughter) But, then I'd never see them.
Krumboltz 97: Well, uh, does that bother you?
Robin 97: Uh, yes. But it doesn't bother me as much as it bothers me to see that my husband then doesn't get to see
his parents. See, I guess that's why regardless of what a horrible person she is to me and really is to my husband, my
husband still loves her because he's her son.
Krumboltz 98: That's right.
Robin 98: And I have to be respectful of his feelings. (Krumboltz Mhm) And I, I couldn't do that.
Krumboltz 99: Okay.
Robin 99: Uh, because I would hate it if he ever limited me to when I could see my mother. (Krumboltz: Mhm) See,
that's where we are drawing the ﬁne lines, is where, I mean, cause . . .
Krumboltz 100: But now, wait a minute. You are not limiting him as to when he can see his mother. (Robin Mhm) I
mean, he can go see his mother any time.
Robin 100: No, no, no, see, he never goes to see his mother. His mother comes to see him. That's where . . .
Krumboltz 101: Well, but, he could go see his mother.
Robin 101: That's true. He could.
Krumboltz 102: He could.
Robin 102: (laughter) But it still frees me. I just don't want to end up being the, whatever decision I decide to make,
I just don't want to turn out to be the bad guy.
Krumboltz 103: I hear you. That's right. No, you don't want to be the bad guy. But you also don't want to be abused.
Robin 103: Right.
Krumboltz 104: You are being emotionally abused right now.
Robin 104: Right.
Krumboltz 105: By her.
Robin 105: Mhm. Mhm. Yeah. But the, it's so hard. My parents taught me so much to give other people respect.
(Krumboltz Yes) And it's hard to, uh . . . sometimes I don't feel like I'm an adult, uh, that I'm still a child (Krumboltz
Mhm) and that I still have to respect her. (Krumboltz Mhm) It 's hard to stand up on my own two feet.
Krumboltz 106: I hear you, I hear you. Uh, but, now, we've actually sort of talked about, uh, ﬁve alternatives now.
(Robin: Mhm) Let's just see if we could quickly just try out uh, uh, uh, a narrowing down. One alternative is no
relationship at all, and you've already said, (Robin No) that' s not going to, so we cross off number one. Okay,
possibility number two is setting some ground rules for planned visit. (Robin: Mhm) That's a possibility.
Robin 106: That's a possibility.
Krumboltz 107: Okay. And number three is leaving things as is.
Robin 107: And that's not . . .
Krumboltz 108: No, that's not a possibility. And number four is persuading your husband to (Robin: laughter) to
change his behavior. And you think that's really impossible.
Robin 108: Confront this. Yeah.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158872

10/16

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Krumboltz 109: And alternative number ﬁve is using your own family as sort of a buffer and having them over at
the same time you have her over.
Robin 109: Mhm. That's . . . I would probably use a combination of those two.
Krumboltz 110: Of, of those two? Okay, okay. Now, what, what, so let's, let' s for a minute then go with these two
possibilities. Uh, setting the ground rules for planned visits, and, and, which could include your family if you
decided to it that way. You wouldn't have to every time.
Robin 110: Right.
Krumboltz 111: I mean, it's always your choice.
Robin 111: Right.
Krumboltz 112: Okay. Now, would you ﬁnd it hard, I mean, I sense you would ﬁnd it hard, to set up these ground
rules.
Robin 112: Oh, yeah.
Krumboltz 113: Uh, what, what would be the ground rules that you would like to set up?
Robin 113: (Pause) Well, probably one of the, the biggest one is that they call (Krumboltz Mhm, mhm) beforehand.
Krumboltz 114: Okay. Let's just work, just work with that one for now. Let's , let's, let's have a little fun here
together. (Robin Okay) Let's, uh, l et's see. Why don't you be your mother-in-law for a minute. Try, try to put
yourself in her role. I am going to try to be you.
Robin 114: Okay.
Krumboltz 115: For a minute, and I'm going to try, I'm going to try to see if I can't talk to your mother-in-law (Robin
Okay) in a way that might be helpful. And you try to be your mother-in-law. You got it?
Robin 115: Yeah.
Krumboltz 116: Now, how do you address her?
Robin 116: Dori.
Krumboltz 117: Dori, okay. Now, let's, uh, shall we make this on the phone, or shall we make it in person?
Robin 117: On the phone.
Krumboltz 118: All right, on the phone.
Robin 118: I'm more conﬁdent.
Krumboltz 121: Uh, Dori, how are you feeling today?
Robin 121: Oh, it's been one of those days.
Krumboltz 122: Yeah, yeah? Not so good, huh?
Robin 122: No, I'm down on my back again.
Krumboltz 123: Oh, that's too bad, that's too bad. Dori, listen, there is something I wantto talk to you about.
Robin 123: Uh huh.
Krumboltz 124: And, uh, it's kind of hard for me to, to say, but, uh, it's re ally quite important for me to, uh, to be
able to discuss this with you.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158872

11/16

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Robin 124: Uh huh.
Krumboltz 125: Uh, one of the things that my husband and I need to do is to, is to be able to plan our time together.
And, uh it's sometimes hard f or us to do this, uh, when we have guests that, who drop in unexpectedly, and, and I
was wondering if you would be willing, uh, when you are thinking about coming over, uh, to call us in advance and
see whether or not it is a convenient time, or, or see if we couldn't negotiate a good time for us to get together. It
would really be a much more helpful way for it to happen. Do you think that we could do it that way?
Robin 125: Am I a guest?
Krumboltz 126: Well, in our house you certainly are a guest. And we would like you to be a welcome guest when
it's mutually convenient.
Robin 126 : Well, I, I can't believe you just feel that way.
Krumboltz 127: Well, Dori, it is the way I feel. I'm being very honest with you. And it's hard for me to say this to
you, uh, but, it, it really is important to me that we have control of our own time and that we can talk to each other
in advance so that we can plan mutually convenient times to get together.
Robin 127: Well, if that's the way you want it.
Krumboltz 128: Well, it is the way I want it, and, uh, so I hope you understand.
Robin 128: Bye.
Krumboltz 129: Great. That's wonderful. Thanks Dori.
Robin 129: Mm hum.
Krumboltz 130: Talk to you later.
Robin 130: Bye. That's exactly how she'd be.
Krumboltz 131: Terriﬁc. All right. Now, what, what, uh, uh, let's, let's re verse the process. You be you, (Robin
Okay) and I will be your mother-in -law. I'm probably going to be more ugly than you mother-in-law is. Just to give
you a hard time.
Robin 131: (laughter) Okay.
Krumboltz: 132 Okay?
Robin 132: All right.
Krumboltz 133: All right, so, call me up.
Robin 133: Ring, ring, ring, ring, ring.
Krumboltz 134: Hello?
Robin 134: Dori?
Krumboltz 135: Yeah, yeah. Who's this?
Robin 135: This is Robin.
Krumboltz 136: Robin who?
Robin 136: Your daughter-in-law.
Krumboltz 137: Oh, my daughter-in-law?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158872

12/16

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Robin 137: Yeah, you know the one that's married to Ed?
Krumboltz 138: Oh, oh, oh, uh, oh yeah. Oh, Ed, oh yeah. Hi. Yeah, what's up?
Robin 138: Well, uh, I wanted to talk to you. Wondered if you had a minute.
Krumboltz 139: Well, I'm pretty busy right now. My back's paining me, and I'm awfully busy. I don't really have too
much time to talk to you.
Robin 139: Well, you know this is really important, and Ed wanted me to give you a call.
Krumboltz 140: Oh, well, if Ed wanted it, then what is it?
Robin 140: Well, we've been talking, and you know, family time's real important to us, and you know, with Ed
putting in all the extra hours and stuff, we very seldom get to see one another, and weekends are our only time, and
it, it just seems like you're coming over, you know, quite often, and you sometimes forget to, uh, give us a call to let
us know you're coming.
Krumboltz 141: Well, so, so what. I mean, what am I some kind of a guest or something?
Robin 141: Well, yeah, in essence you are, you know. Because we make plan s and we want to do stuff, and when
you come over, it just sort of messes up our whole schedule, (Krumboltz: Mhm) and I was just wondering if you
could possibly start giving us a call. That way we can make arrangements to make sure that we're free and, could
spend some time with you then.
Krumboltz 142: Well, I am totally offended. I think this is just a terrible way to treat one's mother-in-law. It's just
awful. I mean, just, I, I, I told you before, that you are just not good enough for Ed. I just think it's awful that you
treat me this way. I just, I just can't believe that you would call me up and say something so cruel and rude as you
just said.
Robin 142: Well, you know, Ed and I talked about it, and he was in agreement with me, but he just didn't feel
comfortable calling you. I said that I would call because he doesn't have much time.
Krumboltz 143: Well! I just, I just, I just can't believe that you would say this. I just, I just am really shocked.
And,uh, good-bye.
Robin 143: (Laughter)
Krumboltz 144: All right, now I was, I was maybe worse than she would have been.
Robin 144: Uh huh.
Krumboltz 145: You think so?
Robin 145: Yeah.
Krumboltz 146: Yeah, yeah, okay. Good, okay. So, now, now that I was just as bad, that's just probably the worst it
could be, right?
Robin 146: Mhm.
Krumboltz 147: So, how do you feel now?
Robin 147: I'd be like, I would feel like, that I probably ruint [sic] it.
Krumboltz 148: You probably what?
Robin 148: That I ruined it.
Krumboltz 149: Ruined . . .?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158872

13/16

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Robin 149: Ruined it.
Krumboltz 150: Ruined what?
Robin 150: Ruint [sic] it. That, that's the southern word. That they probably wouldn't have anything to do with it and
it's probably going to all come back in my face, and Ed's going to say that I hurt his mother 's feelings and, uh, I
shouldn't have done that. Even though we had talked about it. He can sometimes, she'll sometimes turn it around to
say that I said something different than what I actually did. Which is one reason why if I confront her, I like to do it
over the phone, but I like to have Ed listening on the other end.
Krumboltz 151 Oh, that would be good, wouldn't it?
Robin 151: Yeah. So that he hears the whole conversation to know . . .
Krumboltz 152: That would be good. That would be good. And he wouldn't say a word?
Robin 152: No.
Krumboltz 153: He wouldn't say a word?
Robin 153: No.
Krumboltz 154: But he would hear everything?
Robin 154: Right.
Krumboltz 155: And you would have talked with Ed in advance so that he knew that it was a planned conversation?
Robin 155: Right, right, yeah.
Krumboltz 156: And, and so if she did come back and twist it around on you, which I'm sure she will, (Robin Mhm)
he at least would know. . .
Robin 156: Right.
Krumboltz 157: You know, you know, one of the things that sometimes is a good idea on these kinds of things is to
tape record the conversation.
Robin 157: Mhm.
Krumboltz 158: And then you and Ed can play it back when she begins to distort it, and say . . .
Robin 158: Oh, that's a good idea. (laughter) That's a really good idea.
Krumboltz 159: Yeah, yeah. What really took place here? And you can get little, little, uh, devices from places like
Radio Shack that you can attach to your phone and hook it up to a tape recorder and tape, tape both sides of the
conversation just clear as a bell.
Robin 159: Mhm. (laughter)
Krumboltz 160: And then you will have evidence in your pocket.
Robin 160: Yes.
Krumboltz 161: Ever after. Exactly what happened.
Robin 161: Yes. Mhm. That's a, that's a really good idea. Never thought about that.
Krumboltz 162: Well, what do you think about it? Do you think you could do something like that?
Robin 162: You mean far as going ahead and calling her and setting the ground rules?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158872

14/16

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Krumboltz 163: Yeah.
Robin 163: Yeah. I would probably discuss them with my husband (Krumboltz Mhm, mhm) and make sure that he
was in agreement. (Krumboltz Mhm) He doesn't necessarily have to be the one to call her and tell her because that's
not what he is going to do.
Krumboltz 164: That's not it, that's not it.
Robin 164: But if he was in agreement with them, yeah, I could probably give her a call and just say you know,
we've talked about it, you know and we understand that you do want to have something to do with us, but it, it's
difﬁcult for us.
Krumboltz 165: Mhm, mhm. I think you can do it. I mean you just did it with me, and I was, I was more ugly than
even your mother-in-law would be. And you did, you did a perfect job. A super job.
Robin 165: Well, see, I always try to pass the buck and say that it was Ed 's idea.
Krumboltz 166: That's all right. But it is going to be Ed's idea. It's going to be Ed's and your idea. (Robin Mhm)
Because you are going to agree on it in advance. (Robin: Mhm) He, he just doesn't want to do it.
Robin 166: Right.
Krumboltz 167: But he would support you in doing it. And it's clear to me that you know how to do it. (Robin
Mhm) Because you just did it right here . (Robin laughter) I want you to try to do it, but I think you can do it. And I
think, I think that once she gets over the shock of it, she will shape up. She'll never, she'll never approve of you.
Don't ever hope that that's going to happen, (Robin Yeah) but she will respect you because you are not kow-towing
to her bully tactics.
Robin 167: Mhm.
Krumboltz 168: She will respect you.
Robin 168: Well, that's probably all I want.
Krumboltz 169: Yup.
Robin 169: Yeah, that's true. That's very true.
Krumboltz 170: I think you can do it.
Robin 170: (laughter) I'll try.
Krumboltz 171: All right! Let's do it! And I think our time is up for right now.
Robin 171: Good, good.
Krumboltz 172: Okay?
Robin 172: Mmmmm
Treatment Plan for Robin
In the next session, Dr. Krumboltz says he would check to see if Robin had confronted her mother-in-law
concerning the circumstances if family visits. He notes that if she successfully confronted her mother-in-law and
was happy with the results of the confrontation, she might not need further counseling. With her rich inner resources
and with the courage and skills gained from one successful action, she would be able to move on her own.
On the other hand, this successful confrontation may give her new conﬁdence to take on other problems and she
may want to work with the counselor to do so. She might want help with other areas of her life such as parenting
responsibilities or career concerns. Krumboltz believes that the counselor should then work to get Robin to the point
of being an independent problem solver as soon as possible.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158872

15/16

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

If Robin did not follow through on her homework, Krumboltz notes that there would be a good reason for her not
doing so. The responsibility is then on the counselor to help deﬁne a task that is more appropriate for Robin. The
counselor's role would be to develop a better learning experience for Robin. The counselor would want to explore
Robin's feelings and thoughts concerning the confrontation as well as what she might be saying to herself that
prevented her from taking action.
To Learn More About Cognitive-Behavior Therapy
BOOKS
Barlow, D. H. (Ed.). (1993). Clinical handbook of psychological disorders: A step-by-step treatment manual (2nd
ed.). NY: Guilford.
Beck, A. T. (1976). Cognitive therapy and emotional disorders. New York: International University Press.
Ellis, A. & Dryden, W. (1987). The practice of rational-emotive therapy. NY: Springer.
Freeman, A., Simon. K. M, Beutler, L. E., & Arkowitz, H. (Eds.). (1989). Comprehensive handbook of cognitive
therapy. NY: Plenum.
Granvold, D. K. (Ed.). (1994). Cognitive and behavioral treatment: Methods and applications. Paciﬁc Grove CA:
Brooks/Cole.
Kanfer, F. H. & Goldstein, A. P. (1991). Helping people change: A textbook of methods. (4th Ed.) NY: Pergamon.
Mahoney, M. J. (1991). Human change processes. NY: Basic Books.

back to top
Copyright © 2008 by Alexander Street Press, LLC • About | Help | Terms of Use

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1001158872

16/16

