8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Home
Browse
Browse All Works
Browse Client Narratives
Browse Reference
Browse Session Transcripts
Browse Subjects
Browse Symptoms
Browse Therapies
Search
Help
All Works  »  Full Text

  

Search:

GO

Full Text
Session 5: Client is upset with therapist for not sharing her thoughts or results with him yet, in Client 401: Client suffers from and deals with issues
of depression, culture, educational anxieties, compulsive patterns of behavior, repetitions of past self-sabotaging behaviors, suicidal behaviors,
relationship/conﬂict stress, (2006), pp. 1-20
 show metadata

« Previous   

Session 5: Client is upset with therapist for not sharing her thoughts or results with him yet

  

TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
December 7th, AC, Therapist-[Betty Johnson]
COUNSELOR: Do you have the [yellow form] (ph)?
PATIENT: Yes. Then I received this (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Oh, so you paid it PATIENT: And this is the ticket (ph). (inaudible) the last time. It's very hard. Some questions, some points that I (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: The ﬁrst thing is I'm sorry for the day I couldn't come. I felt very bad. It received very bad news. It was a good score-better than before
in Microeconomics-but actually was the worst in the class. So even if it was good, it was bad. But I (inaudible at 1:45) so I feel very bad.
COUNSELOR: So was a class - this was the Microeconomics?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: And that you got a better score than you did last time, but it was the worst score in your class? Is that what you're saying?
PATIENT: One of the worst.
COUNSELOR: One - oh okay.
PATIENT: I improved, but I don't know (inaudible) very bad on this (inaudible) class, I'm really not - I feel very bad and I got (inaudible). I felt
very, very bad. The other thing is COUNSELOR: So let me ask you this, Marcus What makes you feel like you have to apologize? [2:24]
PATIENT: Because maybe I'm lying (ph). You called [my wife and I don't want to talk to you] (ph). And the other point is a little hard to talk about.
But I have to do it, so to be honest. I have the - I don't know. I have the terrible feeling that you don't care too much [anymore for me] (ph) sessions and my treatment and [my depression particularly] (ph). Plus three different (inaudible at 3:08) that made me feel that [it's opinion] (ph).
COUNSELOR: Okay. Sure.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094392

1/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: This, of course, based in some reality, you know? The ﬁrst point is you never [give meetings] (ph). My result on the evaluation-the
computer evaluation. So if I try to do - I did that in the ﬁrst week and the second session I thought maybe the ﬁrst session (inaudible) session and
had only four.
COUNSELOR: We met four times?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: The other point is-okay, maybe it wasn't all your fault. It's possible, but it was really frustrating, but I tried to make a new appointment
into (ph) some Thanksgiving I called Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Monday and Tuesday. And it was impossible. So I even said, "Megan, oh my
God. Even my therapist doesn't love - doesn't want me." So it's horrible. But it's okay. Maybe there is an explanation. I only maybe be feeling this.
And the other point that maybe is the most important for me is - I don't know what I have. I don't know if I am depressed - a depression-I have
maybe a mix of everything. Attention (ph) disorder-if I have concentration deﬁcit attention disorder, I am (inaudible) at least my insurance can't
pay the debt because it's very expensive. It's $500.00-something like that.
COUNSELOR: The test itself is $500.00?
PATIENT: Yes. But fortunately, I called my insurance and they are going to pay. So I mean, they're waiting (inaudible). I don't know-maybe. Also, I
don't know if I have depression, I have attention (ph)-deﬁnitely, my symptoms are (inaudible). One day I'm good, another day I'm bad.
Now I'm in a high moment; and it's good because now the ﬁnal tests come. So - but I don't know. If I did bad or what - it's very fast and the next
day I'm going (inaudible). I don't know if I have these things. I really want to know what I - [should that happen with me] (ph). I don't know if you
can give me that answer or not. [5:48]
Also if there is some kind of treatment-that I can do everything. All you told me go to the library. The only thing - suggestion that you - I did. I go
(inaudible) and I have to (inaudible). It's a good place to study. And very open to any kind.
Also, I wanted to - if I cannot improve my level of concentration, if I cannot improve that, maybe I have to renounce to continue my study because
I - now I owe the central bank $20,000. If I'm going to stay more time, it is going to $80.000. So the real thing is I'm not going to be able to
improve my scores-my level of concentration, then I - more (inaudible) in my head because it's very (inaudible).
And a ﬁnal question is not - maybe (ph) (inaudible at 7:00) that if we are not improving and getting (inaudible), maybe - I don't know. Maybe I
have to be more patient-or maybe change (inaudible) visits a good idea or got more involved in the situation. I don't know. That's a suggestion-a
ﬁnal suggestion that I had. I try to be - because everything - and it's hard for me to come to-therapy is very hard. Believe me, I'm making a big
(inaudible at 7:43). So what's - ?
COUNSELOR: Okay. So let me - are those all the points you had? Your questions and points?
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: I was asking if we had ﬁnished going down your list of points.
PATIENT: Yes. I ﬁnished.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well Marcus, I wanted to say that I appreciate your bringing your concerns, you know, to me today. And whether or not you
need to apologize for missing the last session or not, that's a non-issue. I deﬁnitely understand that, because you had that issue the week before,
where you kind of battled with coming or not-and you decided to come.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 8:23) right. I know. I'm pretty sure. I know.
COUNSELOR: Sure. So - well no, I guess what I'm saying is I can understand how if you're feeling bad, you may not want to talk to anybody, see
anybody. And that's deﬁnitely a sign of depression. So you don't need to apologize to me for that. [8:40]
To address the concern that you have of feeling as though that I don't care about you because I didn't get your test results to you-because I haven't.
There was a period of time after the Thanksgiving appointment that you had called on a couple of - several occasions to try and make a new
appointment, and I hadn't gotten back with you. And then this whole idea of not really being able to tell you what's wrong with you and moving
ahead with a treatment plan for that.
I want to say that it's not that I don't care about you and your situation, and that I don't want to help you, because I do. You know? This is why I
tried to give you the suggestions that I had, and this is why I continue to make the appointments with you-because I am very concerned about your
situation, and I do want to see the best outcome for you. Okay?
So I tried to be empathic and listen to what you were bringing to the sessions. And, you know, trying to be compassionate and really hear you and
those sorts of things. The initial session-the reason why I didn't share your test results with you or the questionnaire result is because in the initial we've met four times and initial three sessions or so.
The sessions are designed for me to gather information from you. And that's not just with you, but all the clients. The initial three sessions is a lot
of information-gathering. You remember seeing me take notes and make sure I had things clear to get a bigger picture of what could be affecting
what's going on with you today. Okay?
So during the ﬁrst three sessions is not typically a time where we share results or things like that. And then in the - I believe the third session or the
fourth session, you began talking about some compulsive issues. So at that point, what I did was I extended the consultation from three sessions to
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094392

2/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

until I got more information about this compulsive nature that you had-the addictive piece you talked about-the drinking and the reading, the - you
know. And you thought that you had a compulsive nature about yourself.
So at that point, what I did was I extended the consultation so I could get more information about that. And I had planned on hopefully wrapping it
up in that appointment that you missed on - to get more information about that. Because then you mentioned something about relationship issues
with your wife-was that something that you wanted to address.
So before I could compile all the information that we talked about in the sessions and with the test results or the scores and things that you - the
questionnaires you ﬁlled out. Before I could come up with a report and put all that together, I still needed more information from you. Okay?
So it wasn't as though I was trying to - I wasn't involved-not hearing you and not concerned; it's just that I still needed more information to come up
with some understanding of what could be going on-you know, with you-and whether or not it's depression or anxiety or whatever these things are.
Okay? [11:51]
So I apologize if it's come across as though I'm not caring. And then with the issue about you calling me-I was in conference. I was in a training-a
three- to four-day-long training, and could not get back with you. So the earliest that I could is when I did. Okay? So - and I didn't know you were
calling Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday-because I wasn't here to receive the messages. I had only gotten messages, I think, on that Wednesday and
then on Monday or the Tuesday when I was in conference. Okay?
So when they called me on my cell phone is when I actually found out that you had been calling all that time. So it was not intention to frustrate
you or to make you feel that way. Okay? But I can deﬁnitely understand. If I were in your shoes, and I know I had called all these times and hadn't
heard back, I would have felt the same way. Okay? But know that that's not my intention.
And as far as trying to ﬁgure out what's going on with you, I'm happy to hear that you're going to be able to get tested-because I can't test you to
ﬁnd out if you have ADHD or ADD or any of those things. And that's why I suggested for you to have the testing done, okay? And one additional
thing I can do is have you reviewed by the psychiatrist who can determine maybe if you need medication for depression or to ﬁgure out if it's, you
know, the hypomanic depressive or if you have a major depressive disorder. And the psychiatrist can evaluate you on that, okay? And decide if you
need medication. Just depending on what the psychological tests reveal can determine if you need medication that can help you just concentrate
more and help uplift your mood if, in fact, it is depression.
Because that's exactly what I see. I see - in fact, I see (inaudible at 13:53) fairly (ph) the depression. What I see is the distemic (ph) disorder, and I
see - that disorder has signs of depression. The sleepiness, the lethargic, the not - but then it also has this component of lack of concentration in
studies and lack of concentration on tasks. And so I see some of that, as well. Okay? So lack of concentration could be [to the] (ph) depressive
mood, but it could also be, like we said, contributing to this attention deﬁcit disorder. And if you hadn't been diagnosed as a kid, okay? [14:33]
So then what I also see is maybe the culturation issues. You know, coming from your country to this country, there could be some adjustment issues
going on. I'm not quite sure. But that's something to consider. Because here you are in a different type of classroom, a different type of setting.
PATIENT: I don't know-because I lived in Ireland and Europe and Portugal and France and toured (ph) around - lived around - went (ph) Honduras,
Guatemala COUNSELOR: Okay, so you've lived all over and had to adjust. So that may not be an issue. Okay.
PATIENT: I lived in a lot of countries.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well just based on what we've talked about and what you've shared, I deﬁnitely see some of the depression and the distemia
(ph). And there be some attention deﬁcit. Then also there's this compulsive - and I didn't get enough information from you at our last session. I was
going to follow up with you. I wanted to ﬁnd out if there is some obsessive-compulsive type of things that go on that could also sometimes interfere
with your being able to focus on certain tasks-or when you focus too much on some tasks than another.
So what's important now is that you get tested to rule out some of the more biological things that could be happening. We get you evaluated for
medication to see if you would do better with some type of anti-depressant that could help lift your mood, and then maybe be able to concentrate
more. You know, and be able to offer more of yourself to your wife-and that can improve your marital relationships. You know, those sorts of
things.
But then outside of that, Marcus, I deﬁnitely see some issues around relationships, just based on what you've described to me as far as part of your
life history, right? This theme of lack of being able to pay attention and stay focused, you know, in your studies. It seems like there's a recurrent
theme even in your relationships, when you describe the various relationships that you had been in. It's the same type of theme.
And so while the medication is great and ruling some of the more biological things out, I still think that you would beneﬁt from psychotherapyfrom a psychodynamic approach-where you and the therapist can explore past history issues and how they have inﬂuenced your life and the choices
and your behaviors and your interactions with others. But I think of your father PATIENT: This is the key, no?
COUNSELOR: Huh?
PATIENT: This is the key.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: A pill you take, and then if you don't take-you're going to feel bad again. [17:33]
COUNSELOR: Right. And so in combination with medication, I think traditional psychotherapy would beneﬁt you-to explore maybe some
unresolved issues from your childhood and past, and how that may be carrying over into the present situations-to the present issues that you're
having. Okay? So that's my recommendation.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094392

3/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Now as far as to address your concern about wanting to be transferred to a different therapist, I can deﬁnitely understand that given the way that
you feel. I've enjoyed working with you. And up until that Thanksgiving-before the last time I saw you-it appeared as though things were going
well and we had a healthy working alliance happening. And there was an obvious rupture between then and now. And so I can deﬁnitely
understand if you were going to be transferred to another therapist.
And actually, I was going to let you know today that some unexpected things have come up in my own life, where it has caused me to make the
decision to no longer be here, actually. So I would have to transfer your case anyway. My last day here will be the 22nd of this month. And so, at
that point - prior to that point, I'd like to transfer your case to a different therapist, if you want to continue here at the clinic. And then you would be
able to resume, you know, the sessions with whomever (ph).
PATIENT: So you're leaving?
COUNSELOR: Um-hm.
PATIENT: Where are you going?
COUNSELOR: I'm just taking - I need to do some things in my personal life to - you know, do some things. But I don't want to burden you with
that, because you've got your own issues. (chuckles)
PATIENT: Well all I can say-I (inaudible at 19:28) because it's going to very far (inaudible) something like that.
COUNSELOR: Oh no, no. I'm just not going to be working in this capacity for now.
PATIENT: I'm thinking, too-you maybe are going to move to another state or something like that-but that (inaudible) wasn't my question (ph).
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So that's - I was going to let you know that today. And so maybe it is probably a good time now that you're thinking about
transferring your case anyway. Okay? So what are your thoughts on anything I said? What are you thinking?
PATIENT: Okay. I just thank you for the explanation (inaudible at 20:08). Megan had told me that I had to be patient in this kind of therapy. You
(inaudible) angry that (inaudible) and so COUNSELOR: Yeah, it is.
PATIENT: It is because I am having a (inaudible) with my studies. [20:29]
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And that's the thing-when you come in here for treatment, it would be nice if we can give you answers right away and ﬁx
you right away-and wave something over you and make it all better, but there is a process, right? I wish I could do something to make it all better
(ph).
PATIENT: I was just telling you that I wanted to continue and stay with you. So COUNSELOR: I would have really enjoyed to continue to work with you. You know, deﬁnitely. I like you as a person, I like - I mean, you are
really open and - as far as your treatment, you're willing. And those are all great things that make good therapy. So I will deﬁnitely ﬁnd you a
therapist that is deﬁnitely suited for you and willing to help you in this journey.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Okay? And what my hope is, is that maybe next week - I'm in the program this week, and the next week I'll be trying to ﬁnd - or
trying to hook up with the therapist who is going to take over my place with you. But I'd like to introduce the two of you. And so maybe we'll set
up a session before I leave, for you to sit down with that person. And you guys can come up with - you know, meet each other and then come up
with a schedule.
The clinic is actually closed the week of Christmas. There's a break here, and - the Christmas holiday break. And so sessions - the clinic won't open
until after the new year. So there will be at least two weeks that the clinic won't be open. So you'll probably - so you'll begin the sessions with a
new therapist after the ﬁrst of the year.
So are you interested in being seen by the psychiatrist to get evaluated for medication? Are you willing to PATIENT: (inaudible at 22:42) is not - there's no people who say that we are crazy.
COUNSELOR: Oh no. Well no, the psychiatrist - like even if the - once the psychological testing comes back, and if it says that you do have
attention deﬁcit, right? The psychiatrist is the only one who can prescribe medication. So like a social worker such as myself, even if I see the
symptoms, I can't prescribe medication. A psychologist who may have - do talk therapy cannot prescribe medication.
PATIENT: In Brazil they can. [23:16]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so here in the States, only the psychiatrist can prescribe medication. So for the depression, for the concentration-you know,
they'll just evaluate you to see if you're suitable for the medication. And then they will be the ones to say, "Okay, here's this anti-depressant. Take
so-and-so many milligrams per day." And then they will review it. So they will be the ones that you go to here in the clinic. They'll have a review
every so often and review how the medication is going-if you notice a difference, if it's worsening, if it's better.
PATIENT: This is - they are going to work (ph) or something?
COUNSELOR: It very well could. I mean, because what you're talking about - the concern is, is that the talk therapy isn't moving quick enough to
change anything, right? And so if it's depression or if it's attention deﬁcit, then you can have better concentration, or you can have more of an
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094392

4/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

uplifted mood if you're on medication. And the talk therapy can help you resolve some of the things that are underneath. But at least you will be
able to concentrate in your studies. At least you'd be able to have more of a less depressed mood.
And so the medication can help you with some stability, while the talk therapy is helping you with the long-term changes and resolving some of the
things from the past. So just talking about the things, now at this point, is not going be able to help you have immediate concentration increase. So
it may be better to be on some medication at this point.
PATIENT: What kind?
COUNSELOR: Well the psychiatrist can better tell you what medication would be more suitable.
PATIENT: How can I make an appointment with the psychiatrist?
COUNSELOR: What you do is when you leave here-just like you did with the psychological testing-you talk with the person up front and say that
you would like to see the psychiatrist for psychiatric evaluation, and they'll schedule for one. And what I do is that I write up a little synopsis of
your case for the psychiatrist, and let him know why you're seeking a psychiatric evaluation.
So I'll put in there, "Client is having a difﬁcult time concentrating on his studies. He's noticed he's had this problem since early childhood, but was
never tested, so there's a chance that it could be attention deﬁcit disorder. Client has been experiencing mood swings and depressive mood; loss of
sleep and change in appetite." You know, those sorts of things. "So can you please evaluate him for depression/attention deﬁcit, and see if
medication - " [26:13]
PATIENT: It's going to cost something?
COUNSELOR: You know what? I'm not quite sure.
PATIENT: (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And is going to take some time?
COUNSELOR: Hopefully it won't. Hopefully it won't. I know we had two psychiatrists, and one psychiatrist is leaving; so I'm not sure what that
does for the other one's case load. But [Michael Verbatim] (ph) would know much better-how long a wait it will be.
PATIENT: Attention deﬁcit disorder-the test is a huge list.
COUNSELOR: Okay. How many people are in front of you?
PATIENT: Oh my God-I'm waiting now four weeks.
COUNSELOR: It's been four weeks since you PATIENT: About three weeks.
COUNSELOR: Three?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Yeah, three. [I ask him.] (ph) He told me that it would help COUNSELOR: And I'm not sure even if you could go somewhere else for the testing, where you're [not going to wait.] (ph) But I'm not sure how
the cost PATIENT: Yeah. This is as [public, no? Public school?] (ph)
COUNSELOR: Right. And so if you went, I'm not sure if it would be cheaper somewhere else. But it's worth exploring. And I asked - he wasn't
able to tell me exactly. I thought he said maybe a month waiting list, but he wasn't able to tell me an exact date when you'll be able to be seen. So
hopefully it won't be too much longer.
PATIENT: So the next week, you are going to introduce my future therapist?
COUNSELOR: Right. So hopefully I'll know deﬁnitely who that will be so we can set up the same time for next week. And once I ﬁnd out if that
person has a different schedule-like for instance, if you're not here now, then I may call you to rearrange an appointment that ﬁts their schedule as
well.
PATIENT: And then the next (inaudible at 28:09) is going to be after (inaudible) [psychologist] (ph)?
COUNSELOR: Right. Because the options that we do have - if you wanted to meet - either meet the therapist next week and have them come for
the ﬁrst part of the session, [we could continue to talk] (ph). And then we can meet one more time, if you wanted to, and then wait till the new yearor even if you're (inaudible at 28:33) to the new year-if you think you'll still need to maybe talk with somebody before the holiday. You know, I'm
available [still on] (ph) the 22nd, so (inaudible at 28:45). But you know, next week could be our last session, if that would work-if that would be
better for you.

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094392

5/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Okay. And now? Continue or what? [29:11]
COUNSELOR: It depends on whatever you have-you know, about half an hour?
PATIENT: I really don't have too much time (ph).
COUNSELOR: Huh?
PATIENT: I really don't have too much [lie on] (ph)-maybe need to be more leading (ph) person?
COUNSELOR: Well in sessions, it's planned usually. So whatever comes to you-whatever comes to your mind.
PATIENT: And it's going to be more (inaudible)? It's going to be worse? Because if we are going to change?
COUNSELOR: It depends on - I mean, let me ask you this. How do you feel and what do you think about us changing, or me no longer being your
therapist and getting a new therapist. How do you experience that?
PATIENT: I don't know. I'm not scared to changing usually. I don't know. [Relax me] (ph) (inaudible at 30:17). But I had to (inaudible) my feelings,
so COUNSELOR: Sure. You don't need to apologize for that. That's great that you did. And I think that's a great strength, I guess, that you would
have-is to be assertive. And that's a part of taking care of yourself, right? And so if you have some feelings or you feel a certain way, to address
those-to maybe identify them ﬁrst. Identify them that - "Hey, I'm feeling this way."
And the assertive part about it is to take it to the person that you feel is causing you to feel that way, and to try and resolve it. Right? So it makes
sense, and it's a great idea that you wrote everything down and that you came here today prepared to discuss those things.
PATIENT: I have maybe a suggestion.
COUNSELOR: Okay. What's your suggestion?
PATIENT: I'm [not sure it never happen] (ph) my ﬁrst therapy was a woman-now with you. And maybe it can go better with a man? I'm not sure.
COUNSELOR: So let me ask you this. What happened with your last therapist, who was a woman, that would make you come to the conclusion
that maybe it's time to have - it would be better to have a man therapist?
PATIENT: Maybe they was not - because of her. Maybe it was because I went to introduction-I went with my brother. I took my brother to a
psychologist-went to therapy with a man. So I don't know, but I feel pretty comfortable [that way] (ph). And maybe - I don't know (ph) with a manmore honest maybe (ph).
COUNSELOR: You think a man - you can be more honest with a man-is more honest. [32:11]
PATIENT: Maybe it was - I don't know. Maybe it was my impression-the day I took my brother to a man-a psychology man. And I take (inaudible
at 32:27).
COUNSELOR: Okay. So you felt more relaxed with a male therapist?
PATIENT: Yeah. Since that moment, I thought maybe it could be that maybe-I really am not sure.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So let me ask you this. When you think about your work with me and you think about your work with your last therapist
who was a woman, do you think you have any issues with working with women?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: No?
PATIENT: I'd say that my ﬁrst therapy-it's long - I don't know-six months? And it take a woman-it was talking and - I don't know. I repetition
things. I was not advancing in my - not making progress. It's - I decided (inaudible), and also I felt better. It was (inaudible) a psychiatric
(inaudible) and it helped me deﬁnitely to [pass all my] (ph) (inaudible) big issues. But it didn't help me too much because she - I think she was not
very academic, maybe, with the words.
COUNSELOR: Competent?
PATIENT: Maybe. Maybe, but not very academic. And you know, sometimes you read book and you know. It's different with you because you are
much, much, much, much professional and academic. Not her. In Brazil (inaudible at 34:28).
COUNSELOR: Do you think a man would be more academic than myself?
PATIENT: No. It was only a suggestion that I wanted to express.
COUNSELOR: Oh yeah, that makes sense.
PATIENT: It wasn't the open (ph). It come exactly since the moment I went that I feel - I don't know-comfortable with a man asking to my brother
questions. I think my brother was (inaudible at 34:57). I don't know. He is very cross (ph). So since that moment, I had - maybe if I COUNSELOR: If you had a male therapist http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094392

6/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: My therapy - it could be better maybe. [35:08]
COUNSELOR: Did you put that on your - or did you request PATIENT: No, because I don't have any kind of real issue. But now that I have to experience it, maybe - that maybe [it come to me] (ph)-it's a
(inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well when I put in the information, I'll deﬁnitely put that in there-that you prefer a male therapist; and see how many of the
men respond.
PATIENT: But not necessarily (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Okay. So ideally, you'd like a male therapist; but if it doesn't work out to have a man PATIENT: Not ideally, just to try it-a change, I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Okay.
PATIENT: I don't know. Maybe with woman, I might try to look sometimes - if you don't know, maybe you try to impress COUNSELOR: That a woman will try and impress you, or you try and impress the woman therapist?
PATIENT: No-me. Yeah, maybe. And sometimes, it's possible not to try everything because you can't tell if it's status (ph). I don't know. It's
strange.
COUNSELOR: That you're some type of status, or the therapist is some type of status?
PATIENT: My status. And it's possible not to say everything to [the position of mine] (ph). I don't know. Sometimes.
COUNSELOR: Sure, deﬁnitely. I can see how that - especially coming - I mean, when you talk about even your own culture-the way you described
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah-like I always absolutely. Very well. But I wasn't (inaudible at 37:00) a woman family and the my father divorced-my
teenager time was with my grandma and my mother and my aunt, with my sister. It was really a woman household. And sometime maybe I create
some kind of (inaudible at 37:29), but I don't know. At a certain point, sometime I might try to impress her or to - and maybe with someone that
doesn't have COUNSELOR: Okay. Well that's something to deﬁnitely explore, because you want to - like I said, in the initial session that we ever had, it's like
the - in order to get the maximum beneﬁt out of your treatments about having a good ﬁt with the person that you're working with-having a good ﬁt
with your therapist. [37:55]
And so if you can't be as open or as relaxed with a woman therapist because of the barriers there, then-it's your therapy. You're paying for it, right?
Just pay that big of (inaudible) money today. So you need to - it's okay to explore other options if it's going to help you be more relaxed or be able
to be more open than you would under a different scenario. So I'll deﬁnitely put that in. Hopefully, that will work out, and you'll see - and you'll be
able to experience the difference.
PATIENT: Okay. And how exactly - how therapy works in the United States. I'm not sure they are different from Brazil or different countries COUNSELOR: Well, it depends on what you mean by "how it works."
PATIENT: Okay. I come here, I start to talk-when I want to talk, the reason-and that's it.
COUNSELOR: Well basically, therapy is - there's different approaches to the type of therapy offered. You know, there's psychodynamic therapy,
there's cognitive behavioral therapy, you know? And with psychodynamic therapy, it's basically you come in here, you sit down, and you begin to
talk. Okay? And it's the therapist's responsibility to listen to you. But as we're listening, we're listening to themes that you may present; we're
listening to - maybe we're connecting the past with the present in order to get you to see how to change the future. All right?
PATIENT: Is it the TV time, no?
COUNSELOR: The TV time?
PATIENT: Yeah. In the movies, you always see that kind of COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's that, you know PATIENT: The (inaudible at 39:49) just start talking and the typical therapy is listening to you.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And then you just kind of repeat back some of the things that you're saying. Like how we talked about-they validate your
feelings, they help you see connections in your life. Like today when I said, "I see this theme of lack of concentration-not only in your studies, but
based on what you told me, you know? I see it in your relationships-your past relationships as well. What could this be about?" And if we to go
further with that, I would ask you, "What do you think that's about? Do you see the same theme here? And what is that about?" [40:32]
Or when we talk about your father and your relationship with your father, and how you saw him. What parts of your father do you see in yourself?
We talk about unresolved issues. How did you really feel about your mom and your dad's separation? You know? Because you never really
expressed those feelings around that-and how is that carrying over into your own relationships into your life today? You know?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094392

7/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Growing up in a time of war as a child, and really always focusing on the positive. Like the bonﬁres that you guys would have; although around
you, the reality was that there was no electricity, no heat; and people probably fearful of their lives or whatever. But as a kid, you couldn't pay
attention to those things. You focused on the positive things, right? And even the moving-your family moving from Brazil to Portugal was it?
PATIENT: Portugal.
COUNSELOR: Right. You know, it wasn't about the separation you were dealing with or were coping with, it was thinking about, "Oh Portugal-I
can get lots more toys," and those sorts of things. So what happens to a child that really doesn't cope with or ever deal with the reality of loss and
movement and separation in family or war? And where does all that go? And your unconscious mind is processing that, although you may not have
ever done it on a conscious level.
So sometimes what's not dealt with unconsciously, it comes out in our behavior some kind of way sooner or later, or down the line, okay? So
therapy helps you kind of piece those things together. You know, maybe what made you have experienced unconsciously and how it's affecting the
things that you do on a conscious basis-in your relationships, at school, at work, how you feel about yourself, how you see the world - and how
those things may have affected your present symptoms and behaviors.
PATIENT: And this is end up realizing and come to a resolution.
COUNSELOR: Right. When you're able to make the connections with past and present, then there is some resolution that you come up with in
your own mind. Right? Once you realize, "Okay, this thing today really isn't about today; it's really about something that may have happened when
I was a little kid." You know? Then you can put that energy somewhere else. And so the therapy is about trying to rework those things, pull those
things together, and make the connections. [43:25]
PATIENT: Also I was reading the (inaudible) about the part that - they come down crosses (ph) that you took (ph) a lot since you are a child. If you
don't have this kind of tools in your mind, you have anxiety problems as a result. And maybe this is what really happened, because when I cannot
concentrate, maybe it is because I feel anxiety to keep reading. And this kind of anxiety, I can't control. So stop COUNSELOR: So instead of dealing with that, you're going to put it to the side.
PATIENT: (inaudible) confront it (ph). I don't have this. Maybe-this cannot be good (ph). That's what I was feeling with reading. That's what I was
COUNSELOR: Sure. And if it's anxiety that you're experiencing - I've never use that term before. But if it is anxiety that you're feeling, then
maybe a combination of this going back over past stuff would help you in combination with more of the cognitive behavioral approach, where they
give you speciﬁc strategies on how to tackle and confront anxieties.
PATIENT: Yeah, because I watched (ph) to cross my mind a lot, you know? The moment the truth come, (inaudible at 45:04) and when I was child
did you try to harm if you study or something like that? I was thinking [for my wait approach] (ph) teach me this and the potential is there in the
child you have to - I don't know. Because every member in Brazil was absolutely-I don't know. It was a revolution-the new (ph) people and dream
and everything.
And there are things - you didn't stop. You went to school with - you had to write (inaudible at 46:04) but no more, because not really good at
school, so maybe I was in a very critical moment. Was ﬁve year to my ten year all my study twos (ph)-my [come down twos] (ph) to concentrate. I
should have a lot in that period and I didn't. [46:47]
So I don't know if this kind of - because I remember that we never study in Brazil-never, never never. (inaudible) study or read something that - or
maybe they have (inaudible), but this was easy. Evidently, they don't have any problem with this kind of stuff in my - so sometimes I have to do an
exercise in mathematics, it's easy for me. And my brothers were spending time writing, and I can't do that.
But I know I can't read, because I never read. I started to read only the [Jules Verne] novel, about (inaudible) 19th century (inaudible at 47:17)
science ﬁction. And it was my ﬁrst book. The Bible, too. But I don't know. Maybe this kind of - I was trying to think a lot of this wasn't my lifethinking. But maybe (inaudible) to study - [kind of] (ph) study tools.
COUNSELOR: It's interesting because you said there was a difference when you went to school initially. And then when you went to a school in
PortugalPATIENT: Yes. Was Portugal different.
COUNSELOR: Right. Because it was more demanding and expectations were higher?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: And so it could be when expectations are higher and the demands are greater, that you experience more anxiety than you do when
those things are lower? And so maybe it is that you don't have the tools, but maybe you have developed some tools; because you've been able to be
successful at work, right? In accomplishing certain things at work?
PATIENT: I don't know if (inaudible at 48:34) making some mathematics (inaudible) computer is (inaudible) difference.
COUNSELOR: So there are some scenarios where you can maintain focus and maintain attention; whereas when the demands are greater and
higher that you can't access those tools?
PATIENT: Maybe related with the long-term process of learning. Maybe. For (inaudible) passing my memory (ph) I had problems because I had - I
[made a lot of ﬁghts] (ph), teaching you to do that, teaching you - and I couldn't relate a lot information that I never read to - I have - I have
remembering my job how I'm big-bigger and a lot of papers and stuff. I never read (ph). [49:36]

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094392

8/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: You never read it. And so here, when you're trying to get this degree, and even (inaudible) degree, required a lot of reading. And so
if you're not accustomed to reading a lot, it can become overwhelming, and you can have anxiety about it, and not even want to do it at all.
PATIENT: This is relating - yes, it's relating in this case with reading. But there's more - more (inaudible) I know that. I'm reading. But I don't
know. It was (inaudible at 50:08).
COUNSELOR: Well that's some useful information. If you didn't have the tools as a kid, then how do you access those things (inaudible) adult,
since you were never taught or ever shown or [had someone] (ph) model for you.
PATIENT: And I was a little worried, too, because I read some article saying that it's very difﬁcult if you miss this kind of (inaudible at 50:38) for
you to [get the lower] (ph) in your other group (ph).
COUNSELOR: Well if you're able - but the thing that you told me, you were able to read these other books-the ﬁction books and the science ﬁction
books. And you mentioned the one series the last time we met, you would stay up all night reading these books. Was it Harry Potter? It wasn't
Harry Potter. Was it Harry Potter?
PATIENT: Harry Potter, yeah. But there are COUNSELOR: You mentioned there was a series of books that you stayed up - and when you were talking about the compulsive nature that you
had, you talked about one particular series that you would stay up all night reading till you ﬁnished it.
PATIENT: There are a lot of series.
COUNSELOR: Okay. But the fact that you can read lengthy books and things like that when you want to, right-or when you choose to-is a sign
that you have a capacity to read other materials.
PATIENT: I - in fact, I read very fast because I pay $1,000 to [two course] (ph) (inaudible) of really fast reading. And it was very good course, so COUNSELOR: So I mean, so you can read and you can PATIENT: I could [after that and I'm reading] (ph)
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I mean [it's your around] (ph) reading, I think it's the expectation and the demands that may cause you anxiety. [Unless to
say] (ph) like being in that school in Portugal then being sent here, knowing that your company sent you-and what would it look like if you
returned back home? Would you be a failure? You know, here you are, you're [with them] (ph), wanted them for your school-and you have all these
other smart folks around you. And you're not the same star that you were back in your country. And you're afraid the same thing may happen that
happened in Portugal. [52:26]
So with those things in the background, why wouldn't someone be anxious about an exam or about material or whatever the case is? If you have
this huge - you know, it's kind of like even an example - and we have to begin wrapping up. But like - you know, like a person - the people who
have to disbomb bombs? You know - I forget what they call them, but if a building even called, the bomb squad comes in, right? And it's one
person who has to realize-ﬁgure out which wires to disconnect. And you see the clock-it's ticking and it's down to three seconds or whatever, and
you've got to ﬁgure out which wire to pull.
And they know that if they don't get the - if they don't pull the right cord, the whole building-the whole city's going to be bombed and everything.
That's a lot of pressure, right? And so that can be - if that person had so much anxiety at that point to say, "Uh, I can't do this." You know - whereas
the bomb trainers-thankfully, they're not like that, you know? They can think under pressure and put that anxiety aside and not think about all of
this stuff when they're doing that, right? So if you have all this pressure behind you, in the background, when you take a test or you sit down and
read something, that can affect your performance as well.
PATIENT: So you have to focus. You don't feeling anything except what are you doing.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, except what you're reading. And like I said, this stuff is unconscious. It's not necessarily when you sit down reading a book
that you're thinking about your brother, and you're thinking about what your mom said to you.
PATIENT: Oh God-that happens to me all the time.
COUNSELOR: What's that?
PATIENT: That happen exactly to me all the time.
COUNSELOR: What's that?
PATIENT: I start to reading and I start thinking that (inaudible at 54:34) did and that and the other and the other things, and many - there's so many,
many. What happens if I fail?
COUNSELOR: Right. And so where you start PATIENT: Absolutely stupid things like - I don't know-what happen if I run faster than lion? I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so it can be a combination of things, Agusto. But like your wife told you, it's about - there is no quick ﬁx to this, right?
Although we all would like to have a quick ﬁx. It is important that you are patient with the process and that you continue to be open with the
process. I have some great help available here to you, and I want you to be able to get that help that you need. [55:27]
PATIENT: But do you think it's possible for me to improve?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094392

9/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Sure. Because you're willing and you want to improve. And that's the ﬁrst, most important step. But if there's a part of you that's
comfortable with - that's something you have to ask something too. Is there a part of me that's comfortable with being depressed? Is there a part of
me that me that's comfortable being - you know, not having concentration and that sort of thing? Because then you have to ﬁgure out what that
could be about-because that's something that can hinder your progress as well. But if you PATIENT: Okay. That's good to hear. That's very good to hear.
COUNSELOR: What's good to hear?
PATIENT: That you say that it's possible.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Deﬁnitely. And don't give up on the therapy and don't give up on yourself.
PATIENT: Okay. I will not.
COUNSELOR: Okay? So I'm going to be working tomorrow and the end of this week trying to ﬁnd you someone who can help you.
PATIENT: Forget about the man-that's only little suggestion.
COUNSELOR: But no, it's a great suggestion. So maybe will be something I can help you, okay? But - I meant to ask you-what is your phone
number?
PATIENT: Okay. My cell phone is *** COUNSELOR: What's your home number?
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: You don't know your home number?
PATIENT: No. I don't have memory for (inaudible at 57:43). (laughter) But I think this is right-*** - I can get you another one (ph). ***-****.
COUNSELOR: So we'll meet the same time next week, at 4:00 next Thursday.
END TRANSCRIPT

back to top
Copyright © 2008 by Alexander Street Press, LLC • About | Help | Terms of Use

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094392

10/10

