8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Home
Browse
Browse All Works
Browse Client Narratives
Browse Reference
Browse Session Transcripts
Browse Subjects
Browse Symptoms
Browse Therapies
Search
Help
All Works  »  Full Text

  

GO

Search:

Full Text
Session 1: Client has issues with being on medication. She is not sure if her depression is situational, in Client 404:
Client comes to therapy seeking help coping with life transitions, (2006), pp. 1-12
 show metadata

  

Session 1: Client has issues with being on medication. She is not sure if her depression is situational

  

TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
Consult meeting with Britnay Cruz
Therapist Jacqie Floyd
COUNSELOR: Okay so you...how did you hear about this clinic?
PATIENT: I....there...during our orientation for the law school. They passed out information about the clinic.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And so at that time did you think, oh, this means something....I want a....?
PATIENT: Well, I had a therapist in....when I was living in Boston and so I....it was....you know....feeling okay at
that point, but I ﬁgured it would be a good thing to keep track of. (inaudible) just in case.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So how long were you in therapy in Boston?
PATIENT: Well, when (inaudible) thing, I think it was probably about two years. But initially, you know, on a
weekly basis for maybe three to six months and then after that, it was every couple of weeks; every other month;
you know, it was more regular as needed basis.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And the reason why that therapy stopped in Boston?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094419

1/9

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: I, you know, I was in a better place and was making the transition to move here and so I just wasn't
seeing....I mean...it was just it faded away.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So do you have....so when you decided to begin keeping track of it again, coming to see us.
You mentioned you got a big idea just to keep track of things.....
PATIENT: No, no, no. I'm sorry. I kept track of the phone number that we were passed out.... 0:01:31.3
COUNSELOR: Oh....(laughter)
PATIENT: Yeah, they handed us a pamphlet. I said, okay, I will keep this and I stuck it in a little folder.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so what makes you pull the brochure out of the folder......(overlapping voices)
PATIENT: ....come back. Yeah, pull it out. Well, I...as I went through....I did my ﬁrst semester of law school over the
summer and you know, getting into that and moving here seems to exacerbate a lot of anxiety kinds of issues that I
had in the past and that particularly came to a head a couple of weeks before ﬁnals. I was in a relationship that
ended kind of right around there too. And when I called here and found out that you guys didn't have any space,
they sent me over to the (inaudible) and Psychological Services. So I went in there. I was really wanting to make
sure that I had a relationship with somebody going into ﬁnals. That really freaked me out....to not have anybody
handy so, I got in with them and I saw a social worker over there, I think three times or something like that and I
just saw her the last week and I met with their psychiatrist....this therapist had suggested that she thought that maybe
(inaudible) doing some kind of medication would be helpful so she got me in to see their psychiatrist, who I saw last
week and she recommended....well, sort of.....she....we decided to do Fluoxetine Prozac. So I started that last
Thursday. 0:03:01.5
COUNSELOR: Fluoxetine and Prozac?
PATIENT: No, they're the same medicine.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay. So you started that last week? And so you decided to come see us....
PATIENT: They're only short term.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay.
PATIENT: So the therapist there had said that she'd be okay seeing me for, you know, six or eight sessions or
something like that but you guys called and I wanted to get something long term.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: And I got started on the medication and I got the impression...you know, I don't know....it was...I think it
was maybe the shortness of the duration of how often...you know I only saw him three times. The ﬁrst time I came
in, you know, 20 minutes into the session she was saying she thought I needed medicine. I'd never done that before.
I'd never done medication before. (inaudible) reservations about it.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: So, we spent a big portion of that ﬁrst session talking about that; got the appointment with the
psychiatrist set up; spent the next session talking about some more like (inaudible) behavioral kinds of things, which
I thought was a fairly good session and then the last session....so it was just three...was after I'd seen a psychiatrist. I
was again having some reservations about the medication so we spent the whole time doing the medication....you
know, talking about the medication there. And I don't know if it was...I don't know if I'm projecting my anxieties
about taking medicine but I kind of felt like I was getting a big push from them. 0:04:29.7
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) to take them?
PATIENT: To take stuff and that's ﬁne. I think I probably needed it and I think it was an okay choice to do it but it
was just sort of a funny conclusion because we had.....you know initially she had been all about the medication and
then I expressed these reservations and she said well, we can do this kind of (inaudible) real stuff. You know, see
you for six or eight sessions; see how things go. I said well, I'd be delighted to see the psychiatrist; let's do that too.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094419

2/9

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

so I don't know if we miscommunicated that once I was on the medicine then she didn't think I needed to see her
anymore or....I don't' know. it was just sort of a (inaudible) whatever but regardless, I wanted something long term
so it felt like I needed to explore that.
COUNSELOR: So tell me a little bit about what it is that you want to work on here. You know, the long term phase,
in addition to....
PATIENT: Well, no...the long term (inaudible) that I want to make sure that I have a relationship with somebody or
with a place for a period of time because I'm going to be here for three years and my stuff has been going on for
some time. What...it's interesting. I think over the last couple of weeks, having seen these folks over there and then
you know, being so explicit about medicine, I've been sort of looking at things a little bit differently. The
practitioners that I've seen in the past, I have chosen speciﬁcally because they had a philosophy that didn't go into
doing medication.
COUNSELOR: Medication? (overlapping voices) 0:05:45.2
PATIENT: Exactly. So I've never explored that before. I had never explored this really even, I don't think, within a
like pathology construct per se. And so it....you know, looking at it that way, it sort of gave me a different vision on
things. When I addressed it previously in Boston, it was more of a...maybe on a situational basis...on a...very much
like a dynamic, like, how are we approaching this thing; what's it mean; what's it coming from; how do you
approach it? And so I think that I have had periods of time, you know, maybe it's (inaudible) and maybe it's the mix
of things where I....and I think what ends up happening is I get fairly...I think the main thing that happens is I get
really judgmental or uptight or down on myself or you know, those kinds of things. Mandy over at Caps (ph) ﬁnally
said...she said you just don't like yourself and I don't think that that's...that's not all the time. I think what happens is
I have periods of that.
COUNSELOR: Is anything (inaudible) thinking about these fears? Like have you noticed like a common pattern of
what's going on...(overlapping voices)
PATIENT: It's deﬁnitely...yeah. I mean it's deﬁnitely adjustment phased, I think. But so....yeah. I think that might be
the main thing. I mean, you know, relationships ending, moving; those two things together is really bad. Those are
the main ones and then sort of....then also I've had a couple of....I used to practice at (inaudible) of Life and
the...there was a....what got me into therapy ﬁnally (inaudible) Boston is I [was dating a guy and fell through] (ph)
(inaudible) for that, so that was another big time. So those kinds of ...I mean I don't know that it's speciﬁcally
situational. I don't know that I could...like I know that at those times it was happening. I trusted it was happening at
other times too but it's just hard to pin it down.
COUNSELOR: Now when did the baby die? I think sometimes, you know, we have anniversary dates and things
like that (overlapping voices)
PATIENT: That was...it was three or four years ago and this has been going on since I was very small, I think.
COUNSELOR: The judgmental (overlapping voices)
PATIENT: Yeah. I can just think of....I'm just thinking of them now is sort of bad times when I know I wasn't okay. I
wasn't feeling alright...yeah; you know, sort of bad years; bad periods. I guess. 0:08:21.8
COUNSELOR: So would you say that they were frequent bad years or bad periods?
PATIENT: No. I think the ﬁrst one was probably sixth grade which was the onset of middle school. You know,
feeling really alienated. I mean I don't...I think I'm spending...I may be spending too much time thinking about this
too. I don't know how much of this is just over reaction stuff but.....
COUNSELOR: And some of it could be developmental (overlapping voices)
PATIENT: Yeah, exactly. Right. So, tenth grade I think was pretty bad too. Freshman year...I was here for
undergrad...freshman year was bad. And then the rest of college I think was pretty much okay. Although this
summer....there was one summer that was pretty bad.
COUNSELOR: Was it the summer going undergrad?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094419

3/9

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: And then my ﬁrst year out of undergrad was probably okay and then my second year out of undergrad
was that I had....I moved to Charleston and that was probably...I mean next to this last, you know, this last month or
so, that's probably the worst it's been.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And that's sort of recent memory. You know, I was crying every day...going...driving home from work
and that kind of stuff. I don't ever get dysfunctional. Like I can always work. I can always carry on.
COUNSELOR: So you say it hasn't been as bad as this last month....can you tell me a little bit about (overlapping
voices)? 0:10:01.2
PATIENT: Just this stress and the relationship ending and ﬁnals and everything else.
COUNSELOR: Now when were ﬁnals for you?
PATIENT: The 25th I was done so like the 22nd and 24th, I think...they were that weekend there.
COUNSELOR: Also this is when your relationship ended.
PATIENT: Yeah, essentially...like a week, two weeks before that there was a big thing and then just the time leading
up to ﬁnals.
COUNSELOR: Can you tell me a little bit about how you could tell that this was the worst month for you as far as
what was happening?
PATIENT: Well, I was getting sort of chest tightness in class. I was crying every day. I was getting....having a lot of
fairly irrational thoughts.
COUNSELOR: Such as?
PATIENT: Oh, like, you know, the (inaudible) everybody's smarter than I am; I can't do this; I'm going to fail; that
kind of thing. The relationship....the thing....what precipitated that, I mean and this is sort of going into the
irrational...the irrational thought pattern stuff was starting almost as soon as I started here. My girlfriend was hearing
that kind of stuff and that was hard for her to deal with. She wasn't dealing with it particularly well. She had been
and this was sort of a funny relationship anyway.....she'd been in Thailand for like ﬁve and a half months which is
almost the entire duration of the relationship. It started right before she left and then she was gone and then she
came back.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And so she came back. She was in Boston but was here for a couple of weeks or whatever and
so....coming back I think was bound to precipitate some problems too. 0:11:45.7
COUNSELOR: Was that ﬁve months that she was away in Thailand...was that difﬁcult?
PATIENT: No, I mean it was great. It was wonderful. We had...we were talking over the IM; we were talking over
Skype; we were on the phone; it was actually really good. It was nice and then her coming back was really good at
ﬁrst and then we just started seeing (ph) each other. So there was this...we had this like big thing where she was
expressing something that she needed within the relationship and my reaction to that was that I couldn't provide
what it was that she needed. And I just had this big melt down...that this is sort of evidence that I could never be in a
relationship and you know, was never capable of loving anybody; nobody's ever capable of loving me; and that was
it and the world was awful and everything's going to end. You know, it was just this big thing. And that was sort
of...that was the big moment and then that kind of kept happening over the next couple of weeks. The idea of this
relationship ending was like this horrible and awful thing, which is pretty much how I react to all of relationships
ending and I haven't really ever had a relationship that lasted all that long and so.....
COUNSELOR: What's the longest relationship (inaudible)?
PATIENT: I dated this guy once for a year in like my freshman year of college. Julie was like six months but you
know, she was gone for most of it so....
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094419

4/9

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: And this is Julie that went to Thailand (inaudible)?
PATIENT: Yeah. 0:13:14.7
COUNSELOR: Have you had the same issues with other...like just when you say that, you know, Julie expressed
things that she needed and you can't do that.....
PATIENT: No, this is a totally new one. Yeah. No. I don't....the thing that happens...I mean the relationship...the
pattern in the relationship is that I tend to ﬁnd people who are unavailable one way or the other. Either they don't
want to be in a relationship...they're in Thailand or, you know, somebody who's already in a relationship, you know,
any of these kinds of things. And then.....or I'm not really all that interested in them; whatever. There's always this
little something that's just not quite right. And then I tend to fall for people...I'm really hesitant at ﬁrst; I ﬁnd
everything that's wrong with them; and then once I decide that I'm going to do it, I like....it's absolute, complete,
without (inaudible) will end. And then I get...I think I get probably fairly clingy fairly quickly and then something
comes up that they don't.........they can't be in the relationship...it always feels like it comes up very suddenly and out
of the blue and then that's it and it's done and it's over. So that's sort of the relationship thing. I think that was
probably the other reason that this relationship was frustrating was because I sort of possibly (ph) got all of that stuff
and it still happened so.....
COUNSELOR: And so what does....how have you seen that your breakup with Julie has affected you...you
mentioned that usually you would...whatever's going on, you've been able to still function, still work and all these
things....how have you seen it adversely affecting where it causes you concern? 0:15:01.5
PATIENT: (overlapping voices) I'd rather not be crying everyday but that's not happening anymore.
COUNSELOR: When was the last time (overlapping voices)
PATIENT: I've had ﬁve good days in a row.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Anything from a particular that makes you have...you know, that's caused these bad days to
(inaudible)
PATIENT: Well, I haven't talked....we haven't...she and I haven't been talking as much and we've touched base on
the phone a couple of times. I've been sleeping; it's anew semester; it's easier; I've been exercising. And I think, you
know, some of it has faded. I've been taking that Prozac. I can't imagine that within, you know, however many days
it's made a difference but I suspect that there's a little bit of a placebo effect, like I know I have it there. So, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Do you have any other relationships or people who are important to you (overlapping voices)
PATIENT: Yeah, I have a really....I have a very supportive group of friends. My...there's six girls...ﬁve others that
we've been friends since high school. My closest...one of....my closest friend within that group, she and I have been,
you know, bosom buddies since we were twelve.
COUNSELOR: Oh, wow, that's along time.
PATIENT: Yeah. (laughs) We're really close and then...
COUNSELOR: Her name is?
PATIENT: That's Sarah. And then I have another friend, a male, Joshua; he and I have been...I mean the same thing
since freshman year in college....my freshman year in college. 0:16:31.3
COUNSELOR: And are these people here in New York or....?
PATIENT: No. They're both in Boston. And the...well, there...I....a couple...three of the girls from my school are
here in New York but they're in Ithaca. (inaudible) So I haven't seen them much and it sort of divvied up. There
were three of us that went to Boston and three of us that stayed home and so....we're all still...you know, we went
away for a girls weekend in July or whatever and all got together but they're...the three that are home are all married
and have babies. And the three of us that have been in Boston have been sort of young and single and doing
the...that world so I'm closer to them...I have more in common with them. 0:17:05.7
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094419

5/9

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Do you have any friends here (overlapping voices)
PATIENT: Yeah. I've made friend within the law school.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I have a friend who...another friend that I have known since middle school that's here ﬁnishing undergrad
so he's around too.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Just trying to get an idea what your support network is.
PATIENT: Yeah...support...yeah.
COUNSELOR: What about your parents?
PATIENT: They're here. They're in Ithaca.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Do you have any contact with them or....?
PATIENT: They...you know, it's...they're...in some ways it's more stressful than not. Not as bad, it's just goofy.
Growing up was really a problem (ph). It was fairly chaotic and, you know, fairly chaotic family life. My dad has a
really nasty temper and he's very unpredictable. He works a lot. He would come home very crabby. My mom works
a lot too. she...we never...I....she wasn't much in the way of mister (ph) protection from his thing and she was little
unpredictable herself. I mean understandably they'd start ﬁghting and I think they'd take it out on us a little bit. It's
never...there were a couple of incidents in the high school...early high school, like my freshman year or something
like that where my dad and I got into this ﬁght kind of things. But that was the extent of any kind of physical stuff.
But there were many, many more times than that....I think there was one time in February when I left the house in
my slippers and walked to Sarah's house so it's just...it wasn't...the relationship has repaired quite a....well, you
know, we don't ﬁght like that anymore. But, yeah...it's still, you know....and I talk to them probably...I mean I talk to
my mom a couple of times a week and probably my dad, you know, at least once every two weeks and it's congenial
but there's this sort of underlying ick. 0:19:05.8
COUNSELOR: Sure. Have you ever....have you guys ever worked on any (inaudible)?
PATIENT: (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: About ﬁfteen minutes or so of time. I'm so used to doing hour sessions (overlapping voices)
PATIENT: Sure, it throws you off when you got a different time zone. Yeah, I hear you. (laughing)
COUNSELOR: Just some questions I want to ask.
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: You talk about the crying daily and it's good to hear that you've had ﬁve good days. And talk about
chest pains.
PATIENT: It's just tightness.
COUNSELOR: tightness?
PATIENT: It's like I can't get a full breath is what happens.
COUNSELOR: And how often does that happen?
PATIENT: It happened, you know, four or ﬁve times the week before ﬁnals. It hasn't happened since then. 0:19:59.0
COUNSELOR: Are there any other symptoms that concern you?
PATIENT: Well, the entire month that all this was happening, I had really like nasty intestinal upset. But that has
straightened back out again too.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094419

6/9

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Okay. Let me ask you this, Britnay, Have you ever, you know, sometimes especially if, you know,
your relationship issues or during the time of stress and anxiety, you know, some people had crossed their mind, hey,
I'd rather not be living?
PATIENT: Oh, no. I mean I have maybe three times. This was one of them where it went through my head that I
could see why somebody would want to do that. I never made a plan. Like the thought is terrifying to me. If
anything else, any time that comes it gets me back (inaudible) that's just so creepy and weird. But I deﬁnitely
have...it just...it makes sense because it feels so awful.
COUNSELOR: Sure. When was the last time you've had that thought?
PATIENT: I think it was probably before ﬁnals. I don't think it happened afterwards.
COUNSELOR: You say you don't have any plans to carry it out?
PATIENT: No. No, no, no...nothing, nothing like that.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I really don't think that....I just....I can't even fathom doing it.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Have you had thoughts of suicide prior to this (overlapping voices)?
PATIENT: Yeah, like I said, I mean that same exact like ﬂeeting....I can get a ....it happened, you know, ﬁve years
ago.
COUNSELOR: About ﬁve years ago? What was going on ﬁve years ago?
PATIENT: It was actually...I was...this Julie and I had sort of...she was getting out of a relationship; I had just come
out; we were sort of toying with the idea of something happening and just it just got really weird and bizarre and it
was sort of right after that. It was about four months after I had moved to Boston. 0:22:12.3
COUNSELOR: Have you ever attempted at any point in your life?
PATIENT: No (ph).
COUNSELOR: Have you ever had a family member....?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: ...commit suicide or any suicide gesture?
PATIENT: (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Okay. What about history of any substance abuse? Or any alcohol?
PATIENT: My mom's father was an alcoholic.
COUNSELOR: Okay. What about for you?
PATIENT: No. I don't think so. Julie and I would have this debate on occasion. A...if I go out and I start drinking, if
I have more than two like glasses of wine or something like that, I don't have any tolerance and if I have a third, I
will be drunk. And so since I've been in school I don't think I've even done that once so....ﬁve or six times...ﬁve or
six months, excuse me. 0:23:10.2
COUNSELOR: I'm just writing this down so I (overlapping voices)
PATIENT: That's ﬁne. I can't remember anything (overlapping voices)
COUNSELOR: (overlapping voices) listen to the whole tape. (laughter) Is there any family history of depression or
anything?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094419

7/9

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Well, this is a...this is what Mandy and I got into at Caps (ph)...we were talking about like my dad's
temper and her and with the alcoholism....like my mom's family...like all my...they're all really heavy drinkers. And
so we were talking about whether that was just sort of a self medication kind of thing. I think my dad's stuff
probably is something...anxiety, depression...my big sister, my older sister, has been on Wellbutrin (ph) for the last
six months for ADD and depression.
COUNSELOR: And your sister is still living with your parents?
PATIENT: No, no, no. She's in Manhattan, New York. They both are. I have two sisters.
COUNSELOR: Two sisters? Okay. one younger and...?
PATIENT: Both older.
COUNSELOR: Both older? You're the youngest?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Have you ever had any diagnoses at all?
PATIENT: No. I mean I don't know what....Doctor...I saw Kathleen King...Dr. King over at the...at Caps (ph). I don't
know what she eventually was calling it. We talked anxiety; we talked depression; we talked adjustment disorder; I
don't know what she came up.
COUNSELOR: Have you ever been hospitalized at all?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Since...let me see. Do you just want to tell me a little bit about, you know, what is...what do
you think is important for me just to know about you. How sad are certain issues? 0:25:17.4
PATIENT: I don't know. I mean I think that....I think there's....I know that a big piece of this is, you know, sort of
coming up....you know, growing up in this, you know, my family and whatever and I....I guess what I'm looking for
is to kind of....I think what keeps happening is I and maybe this is sort of a normal part of the process but I think I,
you know, get to a point where I have some sort of a...either a realization...it's either good or maybe not so good and
then you sort of fall back from the process a little bit. And I just...I'd like to get to a place where...I know that ups
and downs are normal, I think I just swing a little bit down probably more than most folks do and I think that that's
getting worse the older I get and that's frightening to me. I don't want to keep feeling like this. And so I think what
I'd like to do is sort of ﬁgure out a way to mitigate that or to prevent that from happening; ﬁgure out a way....I need
to...one of the big things that was going on with (inaudible) and I was her thought was that I was kind of
disconnected, you know, sort of between what I was feeling and being able to talk about that. I know that that's an
issue. I wonder, you know, out of the bulk of that whole thing if maybe that was more relationship speciﬁc. I don't
know but this relationship thing makes me crazy and I don't...you know, since (inaudible) is that your sort of I am
where I am, you know, I'm 28 and I have made a lot of good progress, I think, in terms of understanding myself and
yet here I am...you know, sort of still in this place where I can't seem to maintain an intimate relationship and that's
frustrating also.
COUNSELOR: Sure it is. What does an intimate relationship look like to your ideal if you could (inaudible)?
PATIENT: Something that's sort of mutually fulﬁlling and committed and sustaining. I'd like to have children. I
don't want to do that in the context of something that is, you know, casual or like (inaudible) 0:28:08.5
COUNSELOR: Sure. So it's that...it's like a conﬂict you want the commitment and (inaud0 you want to be able to,
you know, raise children but then there's something there that prevents you from being able to have that and it's the
question is what is that?
PATIENT: Yeah, that's a good way of putting it.
COUNSELOR: Okay. That's something we can deﬁnitely explore. And it sounds like you've made some connection
that the difﬁculties that you have to form (ph) intimate (inaudible) has something to do with things that were going
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094419

8/9

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

on in your childhood; in your family, is that what (overlapping voices)?
PATIENT: Well, I just ﬁgure it the way I approach, you know, my life and my relationships, you know, is all based
in that. I know I get...you know, as much as there are a lot of different things that can sort of set me into this place
where I'm feeling really hateful about everything, I joke around....I tell my...you know, when I'm talking to friends,
it's like I sort of feel like the worlds a horrible place and I am horrible in it. I do the same the in relationship where I
take a relationship and I just pick it apart. You know? These are all the things that are...sometimes, not always. I
wasn't doing this with Julie. It's either one thing...either one thing is happening where I'm just picking apart; it's so
not right; you know, any number of reasons or I'm...or I miss it altogether; like just something's just not...it's just not
clicking, I guess. I don't know if I'm making much sense. I'm not making much sense to myself right now but....
COUNSELOR: What I hear you saying is that when you ﬁnd yourself in a relationship, a part of that is ﬁnding
yourself picking apart or trying to immediately ﬁnd everything that's wrong with the relationship.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: That's one (inaudible) that you ﬁnd yourself...... 0:28:08.5 (tape just ends)
END TRANSCRIPT

back to top
Copyright © 2008 by Alexander Street Press, LLC • About | Help | Terms of Use

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094419

9/9

