8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Home
Browse
Browse All Works
Browse Client Narratives
Browse Reference
Browse Session Transcripts
Browse Subjects
Browse Symptoms
Browse Therapies
Search
Help
All Works  »  Full Text

  

Search:

GO

Full Text
Session 4: Client feels like he is not optimizing his time. Graduate school is stressful for him, in Client 401: Client suffers from and deals with issues
of depression, culture, educational anxieties, compulsive patterns of behavior, repetitions of past self-sabotaging behaviors, suicidal behaviors,
relationship/conﬂict stress, (2006), pp. 1-20
 show metadata

  

Session 4: Client feels like he is not optimizing his time. Graduate school is stressful for him

   Next »

TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
November 2nd consult with Marcus.
COUNSELOR: So that's your copy, and take that (inaudible) be for your reference.
PATIENT: I've got some questions.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: Okay. There are two by (inaudible). I did a lot of work and trying to the computer questions. But still, I don't know if there was going to
be an evaluation or analysis at all.
COUNSELOR: Yes. I did receive - I received your packet of the questionnaires today. And so I want to review them.
PATIENT: Okay. This is one (ph). And you're going to let me know the evaluation (inaudible at 00:57)?
COUNSELOR: Right. That's how I base-you know, in addition to the discussions that we've had. And then once you submit it on the questionnaire,
then it helps me come up with some idea about treatment goals and the treatment plan and issues.
And so this week, I will be able to compare what I have and look at what you answered on the computer instruments, and then report back to you
next week on the things I'm formulating as far as how I see the therapy going and get your input-just see [you back] (ph), see if we're on the same
page.
PATIENT: So according to that, when everything is putting it together, you are going to make some kind of - I don't know-treatment?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, a treatment plan. And basically - I wish I had one here to show you. But basically, what's in the treatment plan is that I
identify - ﬁrst I get like a social history and how the measures look-the computer measures. And then come up with a formulation on what I think
some of the issues are around the presenting (ph) problems like your distractibility, you know-past relationship issues. You know, these sorts of
things and how I see it playing out.
And then what we'll do is - and then what I'll do on that plan is come up with what are the target behaviors that you want to focus on-that we want
to work on together? And then coming up with goals and strategies. So interventions that we may work on in these sessions to work on and
improve that behavior. And so I'll come up with my ideas and then run them past you, of course, and see what you think about that.
And then we're going to have some discussion on if you think these are good or bad or something-an addition (ph) that you think is more relevant
as far as key areas to work on and how to work on them. So I'll present that to you, and then you can - if you agree with what we've come up with
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094385

1/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

and you sign that and then that's when we'll begin to address and work on those areas. [3:11]
PATIENT: Okay. I've got a question. Maybe it's already answered but - I don't know-I'm very worried. The most thing maybe that I'm very stressful
is about my level of concentration. I did what you told me. I went every day to the library and (inaudible at 3:35). It's very good. I made (ph). This
is a very good (inaudible at 3:39) this time.
I didn't know that that was there (inaudible). places and they are very (inaudible). It's very comfortable and it helped me. At last not to wake to go
roaming and walking. But also my mind was (inaudible at 4:04). It start to look the window. For example, my new hobby is to every p-o-b. I fought
(ph) it. I failed.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Say that one more time, Marcus. You said, "Every - "
PATIENT: Maybe I'm going to show you-it's easier.
COUNSELOR: Oh okay. You use a piece of paper?
PATIENT: This is my new hobby. Baby-in every letter that I wrote COUNSELOR: Okay. So you begin work and you write some things, and now the distracting part comes when you start ﬁlling in your letters (ph) PATIENT: When I realize that I'm doing that-oh no, stop! But I continue. And then when I have something important-and very good cartel (ph),
very [big too] (ph)-oh my God.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So you start doodling and drawing?
PATIENT: So I am trying at last to get focused (ph) in a place without distractions. You know, to go walking-you know, to see TV, you know, to
computer. Anything-no food, only water. But also-most distractions, I'm horrible-horrible. Also my level of optimization the time. It's COUNSELOR: Of optimism? Of hope?
PATIENT: I don't know. Maybe - I think the point is I'm not optimization COUNSELOR: Optimistic? Like hopeful or (inaudible at 5:48).
PATIENT: Maybe making my time better. Optimization.
COUNSELOR: Optimizing? [5:54]
PATIENT: Optimizing my time-exactly. So I think I have a lot of black holes in my time-I feel like that.
COUNSELOR: Okay. There's a lot of dead time or time that you're not PATIENT: Yes, death time.
COUNSELOR: Using-where you could be using to do something more worthwhile-more proﬁtable?
PATIENT: Yeah. And also I want to get everything so it doesn't let me to see the fast way to do it-or simply I have to do three homeworks and I
have one chapter for each homework to read. So maybe I can do the homework ﬁrst; but I prefer before to read the chapter-the other chapter, the
chapter before-[an additional] (ph) paper and then the homework.
So I don't know. It's something like procrastination. But also excellency, because I want to do - to know everything; I want to learn everything, but I
don't have time. So I can't be able to.
COUNSELOR: Do you - the actual - so let me see if I understand this. It's frustrating because you may be given an assignment to read a chapter
and to do a homework assignment attached to that chapter. But instead of reading that chapter of homework ﬁrst, you read all the background and
previous chapters?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: And by the time PATIENT: And sometimes - yeah, sometimes it's useful, because everything, you know, through (ph) doing some good; but you don't really COUNSELOR: But at the same time, you're not getting the actual assignment completed.
PATIENT: Yeah, essentially (ph) that. So this is getting worse when a test is coming, because you have a lot of thing to read.
COUNSELOR: Because you have homework and then you have all the things that you have to prepare for for the exam.
PATIENT: I think I'm kind of procrastination, too. I've [got any] (ph) procrastination I [can call it] (ph). I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Well I want to say to you, Marcus, is I think it's very good that you followed my suggestion about going to - at your library. And
you found a comfortable space and a place that limited the amount of walking around and distractions as far as television and computers. And so
I'm happy that you found that comfortable.
But it sounds like still the issue isn't even in that space. There are still distractions in your mind-other things you've found to distract yourself, even
in that space. And that is concerning to you 'cause the issue was still there. [8:43]
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094385

2/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: No-and also my - it's very hard for me to wake up and go to start. To [may the little] (ph) (inaudible at 8:57). And I have a lot of that
time in my [waste kettle] (ph) (inaudible). So maybe, I'm working harder, but it's not enough. I don't know. It's not enough because COUNSELOR: How can you tell that it's not enough?
PATIENT: Because I'm not be able to study everything that I have to. Not everything, [but at last] (ph) been able to pass the test. I did a little quiz
Tuesday. I worked very hard for them. It felt very good, too. I don't know. Maybe the teacher is a little COUNSELOR: Have you gotten the scores back from the quiz? [9:37]
PATIENT: No, but COUNSELOR: So how do you know how you did?
PATIENT: Five point maybe - two, three-no more (ph).
COUNSELOR: So how is it if you haven't gotten the scores back from that quiz, how do you know how you did on the test? What scores you got?
PATIENT: I'm sorry?
COUNSELOR: You said that you haven't gotten these quizzes back.
PATIENT: Oh yes.
COUNSELOR: You have gotten them?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: You haven't. Okay. So if you haven't gotten them back to you, how can you tell if you did bad or good on it? If you don't have a
score in front of you?
PATIENT: Well maybe - because I am very objective-a lot of the COUNSELOR: Is there some apprehension?
PATIENT: It's a - I don't know. It's a probability. And I know exactly what I did-that the professor made the quiz in the blackboard. So I talked with
various other students, so I know I did this, this, this, and this. And maybe this is good or maybe no. But I actually really, when I say between these
two. I always COUNSELOR: Okay. It's important for me to understand-'cause sometimes what happens, Agusto, is that we fear that we've done bad or that we've
had poor performance, but we don't have the reality that we did bad or good. So we don't have anything in front of us; but we just assume that
we've done poorly.
And that's different from knowing that you've done poorly and feeling bad about it. So you can feel bad about it and just fear that you've done
poorly, or you can actually feel bad about it and know for sure that you've done poorly. Which one do you think it is?
PATIENT: I usually-when I try to predict a score-I usually get more or less the score that I was expecting.
COUNSELOR: Let me ask you this. Do you do that typically before you even take the exam, too?
PATIENT: Sorry?
COUNSELOR: Before you take the exam, do you have thoughts about how you're going to do? Do you try and predict how you're going to do
before you actually sit down to take the exam? [12:05]
PATIENT: Yeah. (inaudible at 12:07).
COUNSELOR: What does that look like? What do you predict usually?
PATIENT: For example, in the next microeconomic-you know, this is the worst of my scores.
COUNSELOR: Right. The most difﬁcult.
PATIENT: Microeconomics. So I obtain - I [see mind] (ph), something like that, very early. And there were things (ph) that, actually, I'm saying,
"I'm not going to pass. This is impossible." With my (inaudible at 12:35) knowledge, with my frustrating level of concentration. No matter, I spend
time in the library-no matter I tried - I'm not going to be able to do that.
COUNSELOR: 'Cause sometimes, Marcus, the mind is very powerful in how it works, you know? So if you in your mind-sometimes if people
predict that they're going to fail-"You're going to fail."
PATIENT: You're going to fail. You're going to fail-and you fail.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Yes.

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094385

3/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: How much of that do you think is an issue for you? Do you have these defeating type of thoughts or things that you say to yourselfabout you're not going (inaudible at 13:13) failing, not going to be able to concentrate? And then it actually PATIENT: Yeah, it happens a lot. A lot of times when it's getting close, with the pressure-of course this feeling of failing is stressing and because and not able to concentrate as I wanted. So sometimes my - 'cause I don't know the anxiety is so big that the only - to feel better is to - "I don't want
to see this no more. I want to sleep. I want to go home." And that's it. Because I don't know-it's so, so feeling really and this COUNSELOR: Describe that feeling for me. What is that like?
PATIENT: Okay. The last two weeks, I was a very - it's like painful, really. It's absolutely painful. Because sometimes you [hurt-start] (ph) - and
you feel very bad. And it's - I don't know. And it's really painful. Sometimes the only solution is, "I don't want to see through (ph)-like the
monkeys?" Yes. And I use this a lot-when it's pain - when I try to study.
COUNSELOR: Tell me a little bit about that.
PATIENT: It's the same every year-every semester. I started with a very big plan-with a lot of signatures (ph), subjects and everything. I love what I
was studying. And ﬁnally, when the semester ﬁnished, I only did good the subject that I liked. [15:02]
COUNSELOR: But the other subject that you didn't particularly care for was PATIENT: Absolutely. I (inaudible at 15:07) I quit. I quit. I deﬁnitely quit. I didn't want to study, and I don't want to, I don't want to. I started to that (ph) didn't go to class. So COUNSELOR: How has your class attendance been here?
PATIENT: It's my absolutely record of - it's my record, because this is the ﬁrst time I went to almost every class.
COUNSELOR: Oh. Okay, so that's different.
PATIENT: But it's not a record, because I know people get - they ask Asian students. They are so controlled. They are so strictly (ph) COUNSELOR: Okay, so you're comparing yourself to PATIENT: Yeah, it's not the same, right? Actually, I missed one time in Labor (ph), two time in Microeconomics, and two times in Quantitative.
COUNSELOR: And what was the nature of your absence or missing those classes?
PATIENT: Depression.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I didn't want to go. But - no, no, no, no, no-I don't want to go to my - actually, I didn't want to see anyone. Like that's it. I admit that. My
[thinking is pain] (ph) as I pass almost. Two years in a big depression and I didn't know. Yes. I failed, so-there is pain.
COUNSELOR: Can you describe that pain for me?
PATIENT: It was [go slowly] (ph). Now I don't know my depression are like more violent.
COUNSELOR: Violent?
PATIENT: Yes. In the same that I don't want to do anything and I have obligations, so - in my jobs. Sometimes I don't want to go to my jobs. I don't
- and maybe I can pass. I call my boss. "I don't want to go. I'm feeling bad, so -" And now in university, it is the same; but I'm controlling a little
more.
COUNSELOR: What's helping you control it a little more now? How are you [getting it] (ph) now?
PATIENT: Because in Portugal I didn't control it. Absolutely no control about that. I didn't (inaudible at 17:31) one week. Even I try to start againto review the chapter. There was too much to read, and it was a (inaudible) subject COUNSELOR: And so what's helped you get better at that? Like what are you doing differently?
PATIENT: I know myself a little better.
COUNSELOR: Oh okay. What do you mean by that? [17:53]
PATIENT: When that happened, I - it's very hard sometimes. I try to make a (inaudible) to wake up, to go, my (inaudible). But it's also very
difﬁcult, but yeah-it helps sometimes; and sometimes the head (ph) is not useful.
COUNSELOR: I want to ask you a question; but I'm not sure what you may think of it or - whatever the case is, I'm going to ask it. What would be
the worst thing that can happen if you were to be successful? If you were able to pass these exams, get your degree, or whatever the case is that
you're going after. What do you imagine to be some of the worst things that can happen?
PATIENT: I had to come back to Brazil, work at the [central bank] (ph), work at my jobs aspiration there.
COUNSELOR: For your what?

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094385

4/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: My jobs aspiration-my career. And stay in a (inaudible at 19:11). My job - not bigger job. The job that I was doing before-I don't knowmaybe forever in this position - because I have to pay this university for them. No paying because my wage has been very big, but at last work, I
don't know-maybe three years for them.
And this is my - (inaudible) so to just see the face of the people when I come back. He wants (ph) and I want to do that. He crazy (ph) (inaudible at
19:54). And my friends at the [central bank] (ph), (inaudible) education my family (ph). (inaudible) I couldn't.
COUNSELOR: You said what now?
PATIENT: I couldn't do that. My father and my mother-they are nice person. I'm sure they are not going to make a big punish or something-very
bad punish, but they are going to do some big-it's disappointing for me. I think this is the worst scenario.
COUNSELOR: It's what?
PATIENT: The worst scenario.
COUNSELOR: The worst scenario. All right. So these you fear as far as your job and folks at work being disappointed in you having to back to
Brazil and not being able to fulﬁll your career aspirations. Your family being disappointed or their reactions. [21:05]
PATIENT: My friends-they are very upset-also upset for having (ph) each of my friends. And you know we [stay with] (ph) successful people and
you want to be successful, too.
COUNSELOR: Yeah deﬁnitely. If you're circle of friends and circle of inﬂuence is very successful PATIENT: (inaudible) school of economic; the other is (inaudible) working for the (inaudible)-very big places.
COUNSELOR: So yeah, you deﬁnitely want to be up there PATIENT: I want to be one (ph)-of course - this is my surrounding.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Sure.
PATIENT: This interview (ph) (inaudible at 21:41) hard.
COUNSELOR: And that makes a lot of sense, Marcus. And I'm wondering are there fears that you have if you were to be successful? Say that you
were able to do everything and to pass all your exams, and you were able to go back home having succeeded-you know, having accomplished. Are
there any fears or worries that you have?
PATIENT: If I am succeed with my - ? Yeah, deﬁnitely-because, you know, one step drive (ph) to the other.
COUNSELOR: Say more about that.
PATIENT: So now is my master; then it's going to be my Ph.D. And also in the middle time is going to come babies and everything-normal step in
life after taking (inaudible at 22:43) everything and step out - jobs all - and have someone marry. But I'm looking at that very - happiness, I don't
know.
And even the process of deciding my Ph.D. is good (inaudible) oh my God-happy. If I get. If I am a (inaudible); if I chose. I know that's it's hardly
to be an academically-Ph.D. if I want to be successful. And after working for certain institutions, it could be better sometimes. (inaudible) happiest
(inaudible) sometimes. (inaudible) and not get any (inaudible) and I'm not sure about that.
COUNSELOR: Is that something you think will be expected of you-to go onto that direction? If you get your PATIENT: Oh yes.
COUNSELOR: When you get your master's-do you think it would be expected or people will expect you to go (ph) for your Ph.D.? [23:46]
PATIENT: Not necessarily. Not necessarily. Maybe it's a little surprise for them. The normal thing that everything could expect is I'm going to work
hard; I'm going to be in my [central bank] (ph); I'm going to do a lot of researches; I'm going to maybe work for the university-teach people there.
Made (ph) a good job and contribute to Brazil society. Also maybe (inaudible) a business. I don't know-maybe. That's maybe what people could be
expect from me.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 24:32) contribute to the society or to the community?
PATIENT: Not directly contribute to society-because no (inaudible) thing all that. And I contribute to society-I don't know anything about this kind
of terminology. But yeah, having a family, making children, house-mortgage COUNSELOR: Say again?
PATIENT: When you buy a house COUNSELOR: A mortgage?
PATIENT: Mortgage-yeah. [Lots of time] for example (inaudible). Yes.
COUNSELOR: I just asked you those questions, Agusto, because some people, when they're challenged with success or being challenged with
achieving certain things-and they ﬁnd that they don't do as well or they struggle with doing what they have to do in order to get that success-some
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094385

5/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

people ﬁnd out that it's really success that they're afraid of.
And so on some unconscious level, they sabotage themselves from achieving that. And I'm not saying that this is in your case, but some people that
I've worked with in the past sometimes-especially if they say they want it really bad - something that they really love to do and they really want to
achieve it-sometimes what they have found out is that part of that is scary.
PATIENT: Yeah, this is - I have been discussing with Megan because Megan's mother is psychiatrist. So he a lot of time use a lot of psychologist
world (ph) because of family. Evidently (ph), she's the only child. And she tell me a lot of time that I'm afraid of succeed and I'm all the time, "No,
honey. That's not the point. I'm not afraid I might succeed." And so we have discussions between us.
COUNSELOR: Oh okay. And so what is it like me presenting that to you?
PATIENT: Sorry?
COUNSELOR: I was just asking what is it like for you now that I'm bringing that up to you? What's coming up for you? [26:50]
PATIENT: It's curious-based on what you (inaudible at 26:55) psychologist, no. Psychology is main (ph) upon a lot of [sick cases] (ph) and yes-it's
possible to think about that-that what I'm telling you is normal to think. It was normal for Megan to think that way, too. So-but no, I don't think I'm
afraid of succeed.
But maybe yes about sabotage my - because the real thing is when I feel so stressful, I sabotage my own because I - . For example, it's ﬁve days to
the test and I have plenty of time; but I feel so stressful. I don't know (inaudible at 27:40) that I didn't study two days. So I just have two days to
study. And I study always the last two days. [Not the real thing.] (ph) I can't have a - because the last two day is different. (inaudible) you only have
to read and didn't sleep (inaudible) concentration. You drink a lot of coffee, a lot of teas-and you're getting that very (inaudible) hotter (ph).
COUNSELOR: You're talking about not taking care of your body during that time?
PATIENT: Yeah. And it's easier because the only thing you have to do is study, study-didn't sleep; didn't have a life. It's different - and it's easy, too.
But it's the easy way. The hard way is to (inaudible at 28:32) honestly is the easy - to study every day.
COUNSELOR: Let me ask you this, Marcus. How did your family and your friends and your job, maybe-how did they respond when you didn't
ﬁnish the program in Portugal? What was that like?
PATIENT: My mother was - because in Portugal, they took me to my mother. My father was in Brazil. My mother was very tired-deﬁnitely for me.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean?
PATIENT: Yeah, because I lived in her house-I wasn't spending my time; she was very worried. And it happened four years. The ﬁrst year I started
and I didn't ﬁnish. It was like frustrating.
COUNSELOR: It was frustrating for her or frustrating for you?
PATIENT: And for me, too. For me more, deﬁnitely.
COUNSELOR: Sure. And so how did she respond?
PATIENT: Very well-I think so. But she was tired, deﬁnitely.
COUNSELOR: How could you tell? [29:46]
PATIENT: Yeah, because-for example, when I ﬁnished my relationship, I lived at the school. I don't want to study (inaudible) and start traveling
around Europe. I went to United Kingdom and to Oxford City. I got [in the play] (ph). And when I returned to Portugal, she told me directly that if
it was no better maybe to live in Ireland and to make, maybe not an academic career, but an career there.
COUNSELOR: In an academic setting?
PATIENT: No, not necessarily academic; just working there to see what. She wanted anything to (inaudible at 30:39) because she saw that I had
(inaudible) in Portugal (inaudible) in a little town (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: So she suggested that you move to Ireland after this?
PATIENT: Yeah. She wanted me to stay in Ireland.
COUNSELOR: How did you feel about that?
PATIENT: I deﬁnitely (inaudible at 31:05). You know that.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Tell me.
PATIENT: At the beginning, I was very disappointed. "Hah, you don't want to be with me. You want to avoid." But I don't know-my mother is very
- she's very open (ph) sometime. And, "No, my son. The problem is you (inaudible) are you going to come here? What are you going to do?" She
was very tender.
So - can be very peace (inaudible) with my much time. So it's normal. And if you think really about that, it's the normal reaction. [Why that seem
is] (ph) looking four years having a son (ph) and he is not able to ﬁnish. So please do something with your life.

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094385

6/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: You're going to do something with your life.
PATIENT: Yeah. "Hey go out or go to Ireland-go to anywhere, but - "
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: But here you are not studying, so - it's normal; so I don't feel bad for her.
COUNSELOR: But you felt bad for yourself, because it's like, "What? You want me to leave?"
PATIENT: Yeah. Of course, like - a crying boy. "You don't want me."
COUNSELOR: Did you question her love for you?
PATIENT: Yeah-but not really question (inaudible at 32:24). And then I come back to Portugal and I think what happened last time. And this time I
try again and COUNSELOR: How did your mom respond when she found out that you were coming here for school?
PATIENT: Oh, my father come (ph) with her. As I told you, they have a good relation. So COUNSELOR: So how did she respond? What did she say or what did she do? [32:57]
PATIENT: She was agree. She was very agree. With my father - my father wanted to support me and to help me and to push me to study. And my
mother said, "It's okay. Why not? Maybe like your brothers (inaudible) you that when back to Brazil to study medicine. So maybe it's possible that
you could do a good work in Brazil."
COUNSELOR: How do you feel - I mean, let me ask you this-because with the older brother, right? Do you ever feel as though you're compared to
your brother or - like you have to compete with your brother?
PATIENT: Yeah, always. I don't know exactly - for example, one of our typical jokes is about the level between his university and my university.
My university-University of Michigan-is ranking between the ﬁrst two twenty of the world. Yeah, but Oxford is between the ten. Now what
ranking are you using? Ah, this ranking. And he sent me (inaudible) a stupid thing like that. They are always doing - there is lots of competition
between us.
COUNSELOR: Is that any source of your anxiety and your (inaudible at 34:36)?
PATIENT: No. He was always (inaudible) - a sort of competition, but (inaudible). A good brother, actually. He had (ph) me a lot. In this case, nothat he - I feel my life is a part of his life. So I don't feel like what he could do could affect me in the past - I don't know. I mean the future. [34:55]
COUNSELOR: What about your dad's expectations and your dad's - how did your dad respond when you didn't ﬁnish the program in Portugal?
PATIENT: I don't know. I always told my mother to go to a psychologic clinic in Portugal. She told me that there is no money. I will (inaudible) use
the money better. And deﬁnitely now I think it could be a very good inversion (ph) in that moment because we, I think, have spent more money.
[But the] (ph) university is paying and if - deﬁnitely, before was bigger and without sense (ph) because I didn't ﬁnish.
And my father, he was even, "Ah, you don't study because you don't have the facts of your life-so you have to think that - " I don't know. He's a
very straightforward person in the sense that, for him, everything should be some kind of rational. I'm sometime, you know, emotional, not
psychological.
So I think my problem was psychological and also maybe some kind of problem to concentrate. Maybe not strictly psychological; maybe physical.
And also maybe a lot of technique of study could help me, but never did.
COUNSELOR: When did you - I guess-help me understand this. When did you notice-or ﬁrst notice-that you had problems with concentrating?
PATIENT: In Portugal. So when you were in younger grades, like grade school and high school, did you have problems concentrating on your
studies and getting work done?
COUNSELOR: I was kind of very active, but I couldn't even stay in one place. What I mean is - I really don't remember too much, see-because I
think that life for me passed very fast, and I didn't understand anything. Sometime everything that happened - [37:30]
COUNSELOR: Okay. Because if you're thinking, Marcus - you know, we're trying to piece these things together. If you're thinking that your
concentration problem-current concentration problem and the problems you had in Portugal with concentrating-it's nothing psychological-it's good
to track or to identify when you ﬁrst noticed having problems with being distracted and concentrating on your studies.
Because if you can go back to a certain age or a certain grade or - you know, whatever the case is that it started, then we can start thinking about
what was going on in your life around that period of time that could have inﬂuenced it.
PATIENT: Maybe.
COUNSELOR: Do you see what I'm saying?
PATIENT: Yes. Maybe it was. No maybe this (inaudible at 38:15). In Portugal, I realized that I had - because yeah, it's possible that I had
concentration problems. Maybe physical, maybe psychologic-I'm not sure of the causes.
COUNSELOR: Before Portugal?
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094385

7/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Sorry?
COUNSELOR: Do you think those type of problems PATIENT: Yes. I think it's always. All my life I was - how do you say-a corrupted (ph) child-very corrupted (ph) child.
COUNSELOR: Were you ever tested in Brazil or did they do that kind of testing or had a concern about attention deﬁcit?
PATIENT: No. In Brazil COUNSELOR: You've heard that before?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Never. Never. I told you, my mother and my father don't believe in psychology. And they think that if they take you to the psychologist,
you are crazy.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: My father is the worst. As I told you, my father is - he thinks it's a problem. For example, when I tried to [clean my set] (ph) you know,
it's a very big problem. So why my father told me, "You have to look at your life more clearly (ph)-you watch (ph) how much you don't have. And
this thinking is going to help you, and you are not going to do this again." "Okay. (laughs) Thank you. Everything is clear, Father." (chuckles) I
don't know-it's strange.[39:43]
COUNSELOR: What I did was I did talk with the people here as far as getting you tested for the attention deﬁcit-when we had talked about that.
And I said what you do is either when you go back to the front desk, you can let them know that you want to be tested for attention deﬁcit disorder,
or you can call the number and let them know over the phone. Because they have to do an intake sheet like they did when you called to come see
me - or come see a therapist.
They asked you some questions and things. If there isn't anyone in the waiting room, they can do that type of process-and ask you a couple of
questions and things-and they'll sign you up for testing. If there is someone in the lobby, then they'll just have you call back because of
conﬁdentiality issues and things. They may not be able to sit with you and talk out loud in a public space about what you want testing for. So that's
the way that you can get the testing here. Okay?
So either at the front desk when you [leave out] (ph) today, you can let them know you want to do that. And then they'll either take your
information right then or they'll just tell you to call back-to call up here an schedule it.
PATIENT: Okay. Perfect. [And you can pass this.] (ph)
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Because that's important for us to ﬁgure out, if this is like something biological like you said, or if there was something
going on - especially if you're saying this is an issue that you had early on in childhood maybe, and it was just never diagnosed and never taken
care of. It could be a medical thing or it could be - was there some type of trauma and things that may have occurred in your early childhood that
has manifested itself through your not being able to sit still or not being able to concentrate. You know?
And what comes to my mind is the war. You mentioned in one of our ﬁrst sessions that, rather than you as a child focusing on some of the atrocities
or just how traumatic living in wartime could have been, you guys focused on how fun it was to build ﬁres together and the toys and these sorts of
things.
And maybe if we took a step back and really looked at that time in your life, and talk about maybe some of the unconscious feelings and things you
had about the war or your parents divorce or whatever-those different things that maybe you haven't had a chance to really talk about and really
look at. And maybe that inﬂuenced your difﬁculties in concentrating in school and concentrating in relationships. And now with Portugal and then
here. Who knows [42:42]
PATIENT: Yeah, [kind of] (ph).
COUNSELOR: Okay? But I think, as I'm thinking about these things, I think it's important for us to begin to explore some of those times in your
life-the things that may have been painful, that you may have just haven't touched on or looked at.
PATIENT: Put them back.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, put them back-you know, the boxes and things, right? Because that - you know, who knows? But I think it's important for us
to get you tested to see if this is what you have-because then there's medication and things that help. And you mentioned before that you had taken
Ritalin legally, and it seems to help you to focus. So maybe - do you remember telling me that?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So maybe PATIENT: Then (ph) I was thinking about the terminology that I use. Maybe it's not "legally"-it's [out to] (ph) prescribed (laughter).
COUNSELOR: Okay. So how did you get it then, if it wasn't prescribed?
PATIENT: Yeah, because I look a - a friend of mine that was doctor, and he prescribed to me-not a street (ph) (inaudible at 44:01) - it was maybe
not properly prescribed. (laughter) And I think the term is a little strong
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094385

8/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Okay-strong. Okay. Well I thought you said - (inaudible) use that term anymore, but thanks for the PATIENT: But the point - I understand, so - (inaudible) I thought about that then. "Oh my God, (inaudible) a little strong COUNSELOR: Okay. Well that's - it's good that you'd share that with me. Okay. Okay. So your friend was a doctor and prescribed it to you. And it
seemed to help you?
PATIENT: Yeah, because you have to go to the pharmacy (inaudible) prescription.
COUNSELOR: Right. And he was able to write you out one, and you went (inaudible 44:43)? Okay. That's clear.
PATIENT: (laughter) Yeah, because legally (ph) (inaudible) like you go today pharmacy and pay under COUNSELOR: Oh underneath? Underhanded? Or go to the street person who's selling [that thing] (ph)?
PATIENT: (inaudible at 45:01) was very easy to - there is no - a lot of secure system like United States. Here you take anything without a
prescription-and prescription - every prescription is (inaudible) codeine (inaudible) looking around to (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Okay. So what do you think about what we're talking about now?
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: What do you think about going back and looking at some of these periods in your life, that you maybe haven't thought about?
[45:43]
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: What do you think about doing some work around there (ph)?
PATIENT: Okay, sometimes I (Break in audio 45:53-44:59)
COUNSELOR: - that doing this type of work has been useful?
PATIENT: Yes. Just thinking about my past, my childhood-you know.
COUNSELOR: That could be difﬁcult it seems like. Maybe? Do you think?
PATIENT: Well, I don't know. It's (inaudible) I think. Brazil-it was a happy childhood. Very - because it was [done on] (ph) the war, so we had a lot
of time because we didn't go to the school every day. Some weeks the school were closed. So we lived in the streets, and there's no - like in the
United States, you can't play in the streets because it's dangerous. [Get over] (ph)-we watched the cars COUNSELOR: Well maybe that's something we can talk about. We have to begin wrapping it up here soon here now. But maybe next time we can
think about what was your time structured like as a kid as far as studying and as far as taking care of school. Like what - how did your family
address taking care of school? You know-were you made to sit down and do - or were you allowed to get up and do - you know?
So maybe it's not necessarily about anything that's painful as far as your childhood; maybe it's just the practices, you know? If you hadn't been
reared in a setting where you were made to sit down at the table and have certain study habits and things, when you're in an environment where
you're required to do that, then that could be difﬁcult if that's not the way you were taught and reared.
PATIENT: And that what - that's exactly happened after this. Because when I went to Portugal, the level was higher.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: So it was very difﬁcult. Because I never - and my mother, they pass a lot of time trying to help us-working with us, and doing the
homework. We had a teachers - private teachers, and were absolute crazy because, "Ah, these children are crazy. They can't stay quiet in the place."
I was - sort of like that. And I never (inaudible) and I'm very active so - [48:10]
COUNSELOR: Okay, well that's what I think - I think is very useful information; and we can begin looking at that-that period and what school was
like and how these private tutors-their impressions of you. And that would give me some good information to try and assess where this is coming
from. Okay?
PATIENT: Can I ask you a question maybe-it's an odd thing. Do we have time?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, we have a minute. (laughter) But go ahead and ask your question.
PATIENT: Okay. I saw yesterday my (inaudible at 48:45). He was a little depressed because he is (inaudible). She is (inaudible), so yesterday he
spent time crying and crying. He was - but when I tried to help her, to stay with her, she ignore me. So - no maybe (inaudible). And so there is some
problems at home. But deﬁnitely not as bigger as my COUNSELOR: So it's not like you may want to talk about some of the problems that you're having at home?
PATIENT: Eventually.
COUNSELOR: Deﬁnitely. We can do that. If you want to talk about that next week, we can deﬁnitely do that.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094385

9/10

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Okay? Okay, Marcus.
PATIENT: So do you think there is some cost to the visit (ph)?
COUNSELOR: The visit of testing? I can ﬁnd out how much that will be, if there is a cost associated with it.
PATIENT: Okay. And do you think that now I'm going to the front desk and ask? [49:51]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Now?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Let me set up our appointment. You want to come next week?
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Next week same time?
PATIENT: I'm going to be absolutely exhausted because I have the midterm today-the next week.
COUNSELOR: Okay, on Thursday?
PATIENT: Yeah, so maybe COUNSELOR: Do you want to come on that Friday? The next day?
PATIENT: I (inaudible) deﬁnitely-maybe Friday each time because I have (inaudible), but maybe each time COUNSELOR: How about 11:00 on Friday? Or we can do 1:00 on Friday.
PATIENT: Perfect.
COUNSELOR: 1:00?
PATIENT: 11:00, 1:00 COUNSELOR: Let's do 1:00, so if you want to (inaudible) a bit, you can PATIENT: Okay. Thank you.
COUNSELOR: So just ask them about (inaudible) there. And good luck on your midterms, okay?
PATIENT: Okay, thank you.
COUNSELOR: You'll do ﬁne-you have to begin telling yourself. [I going to do what I can do this] (ph). Okay?
END TRANSCRIPT

back to top
Copyright © 2008 by Alexander Street Press, LLC • About | Help | Terms of Use

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094385

10/10

