8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

Home
Browse
Browse All Works
Browse Client Narratives
Browse Reference
Browse Session Transcripts
Browse Subjects
Browse Symptoms
Browse Therapies
Search
Help
All Works  »  Full Text

  

GO

Search:

Full Text
Session 3: Client talks about taking care of his ex-wife when she was addicted to prescription drugs. He recollects
on his childhood and parents, in Client 403: Client experiences medical conditions that adversely impact
marital/familial relationships; marital/family conﬂict, anger, unresolved childhood traumas, dissatisfaction with life
and physical limitations, (2006), pp. 1-19
 show metadata

« Previous   

Session 3: Client talks about taking care of his ex‑wife when she was addicted to prescription drugs. He recol...

   Next »

TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: 26, Tim Collins fourth consult. Betty Johnson.
PATIENT: Getting ready to go to work [a bunch] (ph) downstairs. I think they're remodeling upstairs in the living
room and stuff. I'll have to ask (inaudible) [and when I get] (ph) more information I'll start doing a little bit of
woodworking, but its.
COUNSELOR: Okay, well, that sounds, is, isn't that something that relaxes you or something that PATIENT: Yeah COUNSELOR: you like to do (ph)?
PATIENT: it's something I enjoy doing so we'll give it (inaudible at 0:00:32.7)
COUNSELOR: Well good for you. That's good news, so what other kinds of things that, are you going, going to
make?
PATIENT: She wants a bookcase [for the living room] (ph). I'm going to start with that, then a table for the, the one
wall to display our pictures on, and I've got a couple of patterns for the Bear Roasting Marshmallows.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094405

1/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Oh really? (chuckles)
PATIENT: And for a moose lantern for the deck so - [0:01:05.7]
COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: [some big winter projects for her] (ph), so COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: I said if I make them, you paint them COUNSELOR: (Laughs)
PATIENT: [in shorts]. (ph)
COUNSELOR: I guess that's a fair compromise, huh? Okay. So what is it that you all ended up doing last week?
Did you do anything or?
PATIENT: We just hung curtains and then watched the baseball games and that's about it. It seems like we did a lot
of running and stuff, to the, to the store and we do a lot of fooling around (ph) with the kids. Pick up our
grandchildren. Pick up the granddaughter, take her to ballet, tap classes and stuff. The grandson, we take him to
school and catechism during the week and, so we've been staying in and keeping busy. [0:02:14.2]
COUNSELOR: So how does that feel? Like how did last week feel?
PATIENT: It felt good. It just feels good doing things for others and not thinking about ourselves all the time.
COUNSELOR: So what do you think has changed between when you ﬁrst got here to last week and feeling good
and not [so much] (ph) (inaudible)?
PATIENT: It's just, I think communication is better, the better part of it. Because after I talked with you (ph), [go
home] (ph) and we sit down and talk and bring things out in the open a little bit more (ph) and keeping things to
ourselves (ph) (inaudible). We seem to understand each other a little bit better. [0:03:12.2]
COUNSELOR: Let me ask you this Tim, what if you remember of our last session, what was it like for you to, to
talk of Kathleen the last time we were (inaudible)?
PATIENT: I just still feel a little bit apprehensive, that's all, it's.
COUNSELOR: Want to tell me a little about that?
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: Want to tell me more about apprehensive (inaudible).
PATIENT: I just don't, don't open up too much I can't take (inaudible) [self, I'm not really there] (ph) (inaudible).
And sometimes it's just hard to ﬁnd the right things to say and you can't discuss (inaudible). [0:04:14.4] I tend to
think about things, I mean I try to comprehend what I'm going to say before I say it.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Sure.
PATIENT: Sometimes when I get upset or angry, I don't do that (ph), I just say things right off the cuff and then
hurting people (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Sure. And so I'm wondering if in the last session you experienced apprehensiveness or, were you
feeling that way after we talked then (ph)?
PATIENT: As we started talking about (inaudible) tend to relaxing (inaudible).

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094405

2/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Because I wasn't quite sure, because I know we had talked in the past and in our last session you
really talked about some things that I'm sure for anyone else would have, had been difﬁcult to talk about and
difﬁcult to bring out to a person that you don't know, whatever the case is. [0:05:25.5] I'm wondering how you
experienced that.
PATIENT: I, it didn't really bother me, but I'd be very open with all of my co-workers and stuff, and people that
know me. I talked to (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Okay, I wasn't quite sure so I didn't want, I was thinking a, thinking back on that session I did and
all wanting you to be all as though I was, at, it seemed like what you had talked about could have been something
that really impacted your life. It seemed like it could have been PATIENT: Oh absolutely.
COUNSELOR: a very trying time and I was thinking about that like wow. Especially going through a divorce and
then PATIENT: Well, I had to COUNSELOR: and live in a new home.
PATIENT: [I'm still in love with Kathleen] (inaudible) about things to do because I don't have a real good
relationship with either one of my daughters. [0:06:23.6] We've tried doing things for them and it's like we're being
taken for granted, so when they get ready to open the door and say, hey we want to get together with you.
COUNSELOR: What is that like for you not to be able to have contact with your children or not, (inaudible at
0:06:42.3) children?
PATIENT: Well I really don't think about it that much because we're so active with the, with our grandkids and we
have (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: So if active mean like with the grandkids are good enough to replace what you're missing with your
children?
PATIENT: Is it good enough to replace? I don't think so. They, it just occupies the time, keep (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: If I start to say something that I get a little bit edgy (inaudible) I'll say you know I really can't dwell on it.
That'll happen when the time comes. (inaudible). [0:07:24.2]
COUNSELOR: So, so does not thinking about it or being able to focus your attention on your grandchildren or
something else, does that help you feel better about the situation or?
PATIENT: It really doesn't change it the way that I feel but it's (inaudible at 0:07:45.6). I wish we were closer. As
long as they're having contact, they aren't (inaudible) I don't think they'll (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: I'm just thinking that going to trial and those sorts of things, what was that like for you during that
time?
PATIENT: Very stressful. Very difﬁcult. Mentally, emotionally COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: physically. [0:08:23.9] I would sit in there for the ﬁrst trial and I recognized a guy on the jury and I didn't
say anything and he kept trying to say to the judge that he knew me and the judge told him it's not your turn to
speak, you will speak when I call on you.
COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: And so it kind of made a little of a comedy theme there too. But.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094405

3/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Was he a, a part of the ﬁnal jury? Or was this during jury selection?
PATIENT: This was during the selection. During the selection, so he was excused. [0:09:13.4]
COUNSELOR: Well you went to see somebody that you know PATIENT: Absolutely.
COUNSELOR: these are allegations against you, so I can imagine what that would be like.
PATIENT: This guy that I worked with a long period of time at the base.
COUNSELOR: And so how did he respond (inaudible)?
PATIENT: He seemed to understand a little bit about what was going on. He said that somebody else had gone
through a similar situation. I found out that there was a, the worse, (inaudible) and we all started (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Okay, so you decided to (inaudible) a support group? Okay.
PATIENT: It kind of helped get through that period of time.
COUNSELOR: How so? How so?
PATIENT: Just talking about the feelings of the, maybe the betrayal and the loneliness, the broken heart, loss of a
loved, loved one in comparison to a death, those types of things. [0:10:28.0]
COUNSELOR: And whose, whose idea was that for you to (inaudible) in a support group?
PATIENT: The idea was my own. I just thought maybe I needed something to help me through (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Now who, who attended with you?
PATIENT: There was a couple of a guys I worked with at the base and there was some local women from town that
they were there. And it was a mixed group and she was a regular, she was a Department of Social Service, social
worker.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So that was to facilitate it, but (inaudible). And so did you get what you had come looking for
and expected in that (inaudible) group? [0:11:31.7]
PATIENT: Yeah, I think that we got what we were anticipating.
COUNSELOR: And what was that?
PATIENT: Just kind of a understanding of what was, what was going on. Why (inaudible) going on. How
relationships change; how people change and through time things aren't always what they seem to be.
COUNSELOR: And, and, and what did it seem like it, it was to you that it (inaudible)? Why did you have
(inaudible)?
PATIENT: Well my wife and I had a pretty difﬁcult time at times. She was having migraine headaches and I found
out that she would be abusing prescription drugs. She was taking Codeine and Percocets and she'd go into the
doctor's ofﬁce and get a shot for migraines and she'd be in bed for two or three days. [0:12:42.0] And that was
really, I had taken an oath (ph) and stuff because I got to take time off from work, stay home with her, take care of
the kids (inaudible) COUNSELOR: What did that feel like?
PATIENT: It wasn't in the mind to do it, it was more in the, that I was getting criticized by those around me because
I was taking so much time. I said, well you don't really understand the situation. There was a couple of times we had
to take her in for drug addiction and that, that's her spirits (ph) (inaudible) and help and understand the situation.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094405

4/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: What (inaudible) [0:13:44.6]
PATIENT: Dealing with, with the drugs, it was really something. A pharmacist was the one that brought it to my
attention and I underst-, understood it a little bit better and what it was like to go through the withdrawals. I
understood that there's more, someone (inaudible) coming off the highs and I worked as a, as a Sunday school
teacher at the church youth committees (ph) and helped me to understand some of the things the kids were going
through (inaudible) and alcoholic parents, some drugs and (inaudible) out them.
COUNSELOR: Sure. And so having an under, so having had experience helped you better understand what your
wife ended up going through? [0:14:48.8]
PATIENT: Oh yeah.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) And maybe understand a little bit about your experience, experience?
PATIENT: It, it is my, just the one person at home because everybody else is around (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Sure. So you, the children. How did your daughters cope with your wife's drug addiction or her
withdrawal or isolation?
PATIENT: I honestly don't know. They just seemed to be living their normal lives.
COUNSELOR: Would you, would you ever talk to them about what was going on or did you just try and pretend
with them that mom would be out for two or three days like, how, how?
PATIENT: I just told them mommy's sick and she has to take medication to get better. They just kind of understood
that mom's [treatment was expensive] (ph) (inaudible). [0:15:49.7]
COUNSELOR: Now what was your wife's role in the family and in the home? How did her being out for two or
three days affect what was happening?
PATIENT: Basically she did the work. She just was homemaker and for the [couple of things] (ph) and stuff like that
I'd do the laundry and the girls would do the dishes. It just kind of changed the, everything, pattern that, that, as far
as upsetting things, (inaudible) COUNSELOR: So you - [0:16:36.0]
PATIENT: after a while you get into a different routine. You have to make some changes.
COUNSELOR: Was it all frustrating for you or?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Was it a sad time for you? Was it...?
PATIENT: I didn't really feel (inaudible) something that I was (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: I was wondering Tim as I'm talking with you I notice in previous sessions, feelings, you know, for
you. Have you, (inaudible) ask it, when you think about feelings, like if I ask you how you feel about something or
how you experience it, do you think you're, that you can identify feelings easily or is that more of a challenge for
you? [0:17:34.9]
PATIENT: Sometimes it's a challenge and other times it's really not (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Under what conditions is it a challenge and (inaudible)?
PATIENT: In my relationship now we're starting to get (inaudible). I try to [get her up] (ph) right away because it
(inaudible) it really doesn't stop and if she continues, I will continue and it's get to the point where it becomes
hurtful and then after the fact I've got to think about it (inaudible) who's the big, (inaudible) their fault and if I wasn't
(inaudible) maybe she'd accept some of the responsibility and other times when people like her can act more caring
for others than about myself. [0:18:50.9]
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094405

5/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: So maybe the feelings are compassion or even passion and you feel sympathetic for someone or,
those feelings are easier to access for you. How is it, because we haven't really talked a whole lot about your
childhood and your childhood years and I'm curious to hear about that time of your life and what kind of kid you
were, parents, what, tell me about your childhood.
PATIENT: My childhood, I was raised predominantly by my mother (ph), except for the summertime I would go to
my grandparents.
COUNSELOR: Okay and when was that? Why was that, (inaudible) brought you up here to your par, grandparents
and stuff?
PATIENT: Well with the ﬁrst time was when my young, second sister was born and I spent the summer up there and
I enjoyed the fact and I think my grandparents liked that they had, I kept coming back to work during the summers
on the farm. [0:20:06.8]
COUNSELOR: So you were how old?
PATIENT: I started out when I was six years old. And I would go out with them and help with the chickens and the
cats and stuff.
COUNSELOR: You would help who? Your grandfather and grandma or?
PATIENT: Yeah, both. My grandmother took care of the chickens; my grandpa would take care of the cats in the
barn.
COUNSELOR: Is, is this here in Illinois?
PATIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Okay, where in Illionois?
PATIENT: Eastern.
COUNSELOR: And, and, and help me remember where, where do you fall (ph)? You don't have any siblings?
PATIENT: I'm the oldest.
COUNSELOR: You're the oldest.
PATIENT: I have three sisters.
COUNSELOR: Okay, and they're all younger than you?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Okay, what's their ages? Because you're 50?
PATIENT: Yeah. I'm 50; my older sister is going to be 48.
COUNSELOR: What's her name?
PATIENT: Missy. Susan is going to be 45. Murray is going to be like third 41 and my other sister is going to be 35.
[0:21:26.8]
COUNSELOR: And what's her name? What's her name?
PATIENT: (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) Have you all have the same parents or, how is that?
PATIENT: Yeah, we're all, my mom and dad are still together.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094405

6/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: So how, how long are they married now?
PATIENT: (crosstalk) Probably like 50 years.
COUNSELOR: Okay so they got married and had you? Okay. And they're still together.
PATIENT: My dad worked second shift my whole life.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) second shift? And how, how did that impact the family (inaudible) with that? He, he
worked second shift, where was he working?
PATIENT: (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Where was your dad working? [0:22:22.3]
PATIENT: Ford. Other than the fact that (inaudible), there really wasn't a, we would go to school and stuff, we get
home at night, wouldn't be dad around the house to do things with. I was, sometimes it was difﬁcult. Later on in life
I understand the different things and how to cope with people and cope with, I guess we didn't see a whole lot of
mom and dad with each other. They spent a lot of time away.
COUNSELOR: Like together, they would go places or? [0:23:15.1]
PATIENT: Yeah, they always wanted to go to somebody else's house to, to visit. A few weeks ago, my mom went in
for a liver transplant. My dad came down and stayed at the house with us. And one of the things that he said that
surprised me, but didn't surprise me is the fact that he said he didn't like kids. And when I think back, I asked after
hearing that remark, I understand why some of the things happened the way they did.
COUNSELOR: What sort of things happened?
PATIENT: Well I seem to be the, the one to take charge of the needles (ph) and things. I did a lot of cooking. I did a
lot of caring for the others. I was always the babysitter (inaudible) and it seemed like there was more time than mine
(ph) doing that than mom and dad actually did. [0:24:25.1]
COUNSELOR: And so in a sense Dad didn't spend a whole lot of time around you all. From what he says now, that
he don't like kids, kind of makes sense why he PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: wasn't around as much.
PATIENT: Because even on the weekends, if, if we didn't go up north, mom and dad would be in the car and they'd
go places and (inaudible) groceries or times to, to go visit (inaudible) and even now that I'm, we end up, take his cell
phone and spend time calling his brothers and sisters, but he doesn't, I [did not] (ph) got to hear from him.
COUNSELOR: And what, how does that make you feel?
PATIENT: [Absolutely nothing] (ph).
COUNSELOR: What are you thinking?
PATIENT: I don't know. I just think about the, what Kathleen and I have, the kids and what we want to do the rest of
our lives. [0:25:33.1]
COUNSELOR: How does that work for you, [you think] (ph) when you, the things with the severiality (ph) of your
dad not calling, not speaking to your dad and all that. How does that (inaudible) to other people that you focus on
(inaudible). What does that do for you?
PATIENT: I just don't, I just don't dwell on it. I don't think about it at all.
COUNSELOR: What I mean, what happened by it.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094405

7/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

PATIENT: I'd probably get upset.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) as anger about it? (crosstalk)
PATIENT: Oh yeah. Probably. He had time to do everything for everybody else, but very little time for anybody
really.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Yeah, I could see how that would make somebody angry. I'm wondering how somebody could
[make feel] (ph) if they were in, in a situation (inaudible). If it was somebody else and they had a father (inaudible)
make them feel? [0:26:38.0]
PATIENT: Oh, they'd probably be pretty upset.
COUNSELOR: I would imagine so. (chuckles) I think rightfully so.
PATIENT: Life is too short to dwell on problems (inaudible) try to think about happier times and what we want to
do. Now we'd like to move where it's warm to get away from here. We still have a couple grandkids here that we
care about deeply and it's difﬁcult.
COUNSELOR: So getting away from here - what is here?
PATIENT: Well, wintertime is coming up and it's cold. I worked outside for 20 years and Kathleen's getting to the
point she doesn't like the cold, she's got arthritis really bad, can't take it so (inaudible). So someplace warm, like
Arizona or something. [0:27:43.1]
COUNSELOR: And are there any other reasons why you'd want to get away from here, outside the weather and the
cold?
PATIENT: Just a change.
COUNSELOR: Change. Change? What would, what would that, what (inaudible) see you change (inaudible) think
about it, change to what (inaudible)?
PATIENT: Change to a different society, different people. Make new friends. New church.
COUNSELOR: So, what would you be able to do differently in this new society new friends, (inaudible) what you,
what society would you (inaudible)? [0:28:38.7]
PATIENT: Cold weather we just don't like to be out and about. We prefer to be more inside and stuff. There's a
situation with the (inaudible) outdoor type.
COUNSELOR: And this society that (inaudible) climate. How would your society ﬁt in (inaudible) society
(inaudible)?
PATIENT: Some of the people of Champaign I (inaudible) and I, I just feel that some of them are just a little bit too
high society and tend to look down upon you rather than, than looking at you on the same level and I can
communicate to people at all levels and after a while of (inaudible) talking, trying to talk up to somebody, you'd be
(inaudible) become a little bit turned off. [0:29:59.2]
COUNSELOR: Sure I can imagine that.
PATIENT: And I, probably have similar situations no matter where you go. I've been in Champaign now for about
eight years and I just don't (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) respect you now (inaudible).
PATIENT: We looked at Tucson. Tucson has a college up there and we're both talking about going back to school.
COUNSELOR: Okay, what would you go back to school for?
PATIENT: She would like to pick up a second language and I would like to go into advertising.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094405

8/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: Oh really.
PATIENT: Advertising. [0:30:59.2] (inaudible) I look at a couple of good schools right in this area, but wintertime
coming, with slippery roads and stuff, I, I just don't (inaudible) know that she won't [be there] (ph), so it makes it a
little bit difﬁcult to try to do things.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) Do you guys have a timeframe on when you were going to go (inaudible)? You guys
talk about it or?
PATIENT: [laughs] We talk about it every day. We keep (inaudible) next week, next week. Well, let's go today. Well,
we got these to the point (inaudible) and stuff.
COUNSELOR: Yeah (inaudible) think about (inaudible). I'm, I'm wondering what were your visions and your
dreams like when you were a child? What did you, what were your dreams? What did you see yourself doing?
[0:31:58.0]
PATIENT: I don't know, I, at the time when I was working with my grandfather and my uncles on the farm, I kind of
felt like that was what I liked, it's and it's a different pace in life. Right after high school when I graduated I went in
the service and went through school to become an aircraft mechanic. And that was always my thing from that point
on. 20 years I did that. I had satisfaction in the work that was performed because we knew that there was going to be
somebody taking that airplane up to 35,000 feet, and depending on what we did. It was a lot of responsibility.
[0:32:59.8]
COUNSELOR: I imagine that would be. (inaudible) ﬁrst (inaudible) really do their job and was a case (inaudible).
(laughs)
PATIENT: It was, it was kind of like a, a (inaudible) compared to a family because you spend a lot of time together.
We'd go on deployments and be around these people at times more than what you were at home and stuff. You
learned and, that's how these people, some of their cooperation and their COUNSELOR: Was that an easy task for you or a difﬁcult task to depend on?
PATIENT: That was a fairly easy task. [0:33:51.1]
COUNSELOR: So, I, I guess I'm asking because you talked about being the oldest and you were giving a little more
than the taking of your siblings and sort of being that role for as long as you were and it seemed like you would be
more independent or people would depend on you more so than, than (inaudible).
PATIENT: I was independent but it took us some time to really get into the (inaudible) where we were basically
depending on each other. I was a munitions guard and there was always two of us and we'd be on each side of a
munition and he'd be watching behind me, I'd be watching behind him and we knew that if, if either one of us turned
our heads that we were going to be COUNSELOR: Right, so it is kind of like PATIENT: responsible for each other. [0:34:52.7]
COUNSELOR: So that accountability, responsibility would be able to be learned possibly from them (inaudible)
period it sounds like. Did it feel that way in your own family that you had to be responsible for each other? If not,
there was (inaudible)?
PATIENT: I was responsible for them, yes. I'm not sure what I felt at that time. Later on, when I talked about
munitions because I'm building munitions, it was a very, very deep constant (inaudible). Responsibility for them.
COUNSELOR: What was your mom like? Growing up? [0:35:48.9]
PATIENT: Her and I'd sit and watch TV, stuff and, she just sounds (ph) more or less. I was in the evenings, I would
be outside our neighborhood, a lot of kids my age or just a little bit younger so we played baseball, played football,
ride our bikes around, played with them and stuff and so I would, that was kind of my time to be outside, generally
around 9 o'clock (inaudible). [We'd watch] (ph) Combat if dad was (inaudible) we'd watch Twilight Zone or the
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094405

9/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

(inaudible). [0:36:56.4] I really didn't have any, really didn't have any strong relationship with mom. I got awards
for school ever since elementary school I'd get up and ﬁx my own cereal and I would get off to school and stuff. She
did (ph) home when I got home. It's kind of that (ph) I had a better relationship with my grandmother and
grandfather. I felt COUNSELOR: Tell me about your grandmother and grandfather.
PATIENT: Oh my grandmother, she baked bread and baked biscuits and stuff. I'd work in the kitchen with her and
taught me. As I got older and I'd be working out more in the farm, the chores, and I'd help my uncles with the hay
and whatnot and I drove the tractors. [0:37:57.7] My grandmother was a very caring person. She was doing things,
[work at church board] (ph). But she was, for herself, you know she was always making the meals for everybody
and dealing with the household chores and whatnot. My grandfather would go to the grocery store once a month.
Drive from Belvidere. On Sundays, my grandmother, grandfather and I would go to the health department where she
cleaned ofﬁces and stuff and (inaudible) and other times there would be motorcyclists coming into town and she'd
open up the house as a kind of a bed-and-breakfast type thing for them. [0:39:03.5] (inaudible) Just all kinds of
different things going on with them. Changing things.
COUNSELOR: From home? That's home (inaudible) changing things?
PATIENT: I actually felt like I was doing something and being appreciated for it.
COUNSELOR: At home or with the grandparents?
PATIENT: With my grandparents.
COUNSELOR: How did your grandparents show appreciation (inaudible) [that you appreciated] (ph)?
PATIENT: Oh at the end of the summer I always got a check and that was how I bought my school clothes and stuff.
COUNSELOR: So, monetarily they'd show you? Any other ways they'd show you that they appreciated you or that
you appreciated?
PATIENT: Oh yeah. They'd tell me quite a bit, they'd (inaudible) here, "Thank you for helping us." [0:40:04.2] It
was just nice to get a hug once in a while.
COUNSELOR: Hugs. Sure (inaudible) kids you know? Because look at the (inaudible) someone.
PATIENT: Oh yeah. And now that, that I'm a grandfather we took a vacation this summer and we took Mike, which
is our grandson - he just turned ten - took him on vacation with us. Went on a chartered boat, went ten miles out and
crossed Lake Crystal and went ﬁshing.
COUNSELOR: Oh wow.
PATIENT: Got a ﬁsh on the line and said here Mike and he tried it for a little while and lost the ﬁsh and he says, "I
don't want to do this anymore" and I says okay, why don't you go up there with the Captain then. But we had fun.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it sounds like you had a lot of fun with your grandparents and now you doing that with your
own grandchildren.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: What was that, what are the, what did that picture look like at home? (coughs) You said huge refuge
(ph) appreciated the fun things to do, the hugs, they'd reward you for things. What did that picture look like at home
with your parents?
PATIENT: Just totally different picture. Totally different picture.
COUNSELOR: And (inaudible)? (crosstalk)
PATIENT: I've spent, I've spent more time at home with the kids than they do, than I did with my parents.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094405

10/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: [Don't they give their reasons] (ph)?
PATIENT: I don't know, my dad, he worked a second shift and the only time I seen him at night is if I forgot to take
the garbage out.
COUNSELOR: And what kind of interaction would (inaudible) ? [0:41:58.1]
PATIENT: Stress.
COUNSELOR: Stressful?
PATIENT: Yeah, I (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: Well I think, stop and think about different things. I just, I was like youths, always wanting to be
someplace and do things but not really staying around home and doing things.
COUNSELOR: So at night when you (inaudible) How was that stressful?
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: I was wondering when you saw him at night in bed saying (inaudible) garbage, what was that
encounter like?
PATIENT: Oh, he was usually angry. Because I didn't do what I was supposed to do when I was, when he told me to
and so he would get angry.
COUNSELOR: And what?
PATIENT: He'd come out and say, "Hey, out of bed now. Get down and there and get (ph) garbage." [0:43:01.3]
COUNSELOR: And he'd wake you up while you were sleeping?
PATIENT: Oh yeah.
COUNSELOR: And so that's [one tiny little pay attention] (ph) to you and he had to come and get you to do
something, hadn't taken the garbage out or done something [the way he wanted you to] (ph).
PATIENT: Yeah, because I don't remember him coming in to the bedrooms any other time when he came home
other than if something wasn't right.
COUNSELOR: In what ways did, did your dad express his anger he showed (inaudible)?
PATIENT: Quite often with a belt.
COUNSELOR: How would you describe how he used the belt?
PATIENT: On today's terms he would have been in jail.
COUNSELOR: Thinks physical abuse [for] (ph) physical abuse? [0:43:56.5]
PATIENT: Yeah, probably classiﬁed as physical abuse because it wasn't just one or two smacks. That's (ph) at about
10 or 12 and even then sometimes it would be more.
COUNSELOR: What would make him stop or how long did it stop?
PATIENT: When he thought he got to the point where you learned your lesson and you were going to learn your
lesson his way.

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094405

11/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: And how did he res-how, how did you typically react to that (inaudible)? You shake your head.
Shaking your head. [0:44:59.3]
PATIENT: Sometimes you can take a belt and swing at me and I'm going to make you as tired as you can, I was just
dropped. He would have to grab my arm and lift me.
COUNSELOR: You would just drop? And just drop your body weight - ?
PATIENT: Yep, we all did.
COUNSELOR: Well, (inaudible) Tim?
PATIENT: Difﬁcult. I never laid a hand on my own kids. I mean, even today I'll, I'll stop and think what I went
through and just get (inaudible). I told them if I do this you can call the cops. [0:46:08.4] (inaudible) wail me. I was
16 years old and he was going to do it one time and I raised my ﬁst and [laid him out] (ph).
COUNSELOR: At 16 you tried to assert yourself [and say I'm not taking this] (ph).
PATIENT: At 17 my (inaudible)
(Audio gap)
COUNSELOR: [saying that you tried to] (ph) (inaudible) onto the surface because they didn't want you to go have
anything to do with it? Did you end up saying good bye?
PATIENT: No. I didn't really care about it and I just (inaudible). [0:47:06.9]
COUNSELOR: How could you understand your dad's anger? At that dinner in your childhood (inaudible)?
PATIENT: I don't understand.
COUNSELOR: What do you, when, when (inaudible) your father (inaudible) out and then angry and the way he
acted when you were in the 9th grade. Why did you think he was doing it or why did you think he was an, so angry?
PATIENT: Sometimes I just thought he was just being too overly aggressive (inaudible). Maybe so he can get
something (inaudible) at the belt once, maybe twice but to just get angry quite often again (inaudible) [0:48:07.0]
COUNSELOR: Did he drink at all or?
PATIENT: Not that, not very much. Not that I remember. He did more than drinking when he was a kid.
COUNSELOR: Did he show anger towards your mom?
PATIENT: He usually jumped in the car and left when they started ﬁghting and I don't think, what I tend to do now
is I just run (ph). I don't want to do anything that (inaudible) I'll regret.
COUNSELOR: Do you, don't you think the two are related at your dad (inaudible)?
PATIENT: Oh I'm fairly certain it is because that's what I saw and that is what I learned. That was his way of
dealing with this, can't ﬁght with (inaudible) people. But now I'm, we're becoming a little bit more reactive with
each other and so I, I don't feel that I get as angry as fast as, as what he did. [0:49:19.8] But I, I still have my
moments where I get upset (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: So you see there's some similarities but there are differences PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: from your dad's anger.
PATIENT: Yes.
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094405

12/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: I deﬁnitely time goes fast and quickly. But how (inaudible) are you feeling to have (inaudible)?
PATIENT: (inaudible) I'm not a, now what, what happened in the past is in the past and just look toward the future
and new things will come.
COUNSELOR: And so what, what do you think about over the course of this treatment us looking at the past in
order to have the understanding of what's going on with you in the present? Do you think many of the two are
related at all or? [0:50:18.1]
PATIENT: (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Oh what you can look at so you learn?
PATIENT: Kathleen has tried to tell me all along, you're not like your parents. But she sees the same similarities.
She says you're the same, but you're still different. So I kind of understand a little bit more. She sees things that, that
happened, that probably happened all the way through and I was just blind to it. I didn't really want to see.
COUNSELOR: Why wouldn't you want to see it?
PATIENT: I don't know, maybe just some of the patterns?
COUNSELOR: Sure. Yes, I'm sure it's going, rooted in some (inaudible) and some hurt and some anger and if I look
at stuff (inaudible) bring up those memories and bring up the way I felt [at that time] (ph) and so I don't want to look
at it, I don't want to, I would rather not. [0:51:33.6]
PATIENT: I think I'm (inaudible) a little older, older and a little wiser and understand some of the things that did
happen that just because they happened doesn't mean they have to continue.
COUNSELOR: Exactly. Exactly. And so I think a part of this Tim is sometimes our presents have done things that
have gone and that's are rooted in things that happened to us in the past or what life was like for us like a child that
carries that with us. And I would hope that as we continue working on these things that we can explore some of that
together and I, I don't want to push you to look at anything unless you are ready and comfortable in doing that so if
at any point that we're talking about your childhood and your dad and feeling uncomfortable or things come up it's
okay to say and that let's talk about something else and if you haven't looked at this stuff in a while it can become
intense. [0:52:50.3]
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: But there is some bound to trip on that net your parents (inaudible) get a chance to talk about it.
Talk about this friction with your dad (inaudible) dropped your weight, it's like you couldn't say or you couldn't
speak or but to ﬁnally now that you're older, wiser, more mature, ﬁnally let that child speak about what that was like
and it'd be okay and knowing that I'm not going to wail on you or you're not going to get wailed on but to be in a
safe space that (inaudible).
PATIENT: One of my favorite movies is Bruce Willis as a kid. And when he sees his childhood (inaudible) and he
understands at an older age why things happened the way they did when he was a kid.
COUNSELOR: So you think that would be helpful at all? [0:53:51.3]
PATIENT: Oh, yeah.
COUNSELOR: And maybe you could look at, you may end up looking at your parents' relationship and how does
that impact your present relationship. Who knows, it could be something (inaudible). So, I think this worked really
good with you being as open as you have been and sharing this stuff I think that's where again, that's where it starts.
(inaudible) So thank you for sharing.
PATIENT: Thank you.
COUNSELOR: Oh, you're welcome.
PATIENT: (inaudible)
http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094405

13/14

8/21/2017

Counseling and Psychotherapy Transcripts, Client Narratives, and Reference Works

COUNSELOR: (inaudible) Did you want us to meet next week?
PATIENT: In two weeks.
COUNSELOR: In two weeks? Okay. Let me ask you this and when you say two weeks, what is that about?
[0:54:41.4]
PATIENT: Well, it's kind of a (inaudible) issue. (inaudible) it gives us a little bit more time to (inaudible). It gives
me a little bit of time to reﬂect on what we've talked about and think things a bit.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Would you mind sharing with me why you need to do two weeks and that share with me what
you've reﬂected on during the week that we hadn't met at the beginning of the session just so I know how you're
processing. [You know, the work.] (ph) This can be intense work.
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: So, I'll be curious to hear how this affected and impacted you. Okay? Okay. I, I don't have my
calendar here. Let's see. [0:55:51.2] (inaudible)
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: If it's a money issue, I did send that to the Director with the change that he request, that he wanted
you to know what it was and (inaudible) included (inaudible) and (inaudible) what would be. So 35 dollars is too
much (inaudible) Tim. (inaudible) [0:56:48.9]
PATIENT: (inaudible) It's probably (inaudible). Just about make our house payment (inaudible). Social Security is
such a joke.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that you were telling me. And did you ever ﬁnish the - [0:57:42.9]
END TRANSCRIPT

back to top
Copyright © 2008 by Alexander Street Press, LLC • About | Help | Terms of Use

http://ezproxy.library.nyu.edu:4832/psyc/psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpID=1000094405

14/14

